where will the Eagles finish 2015?
Drew, what is a 'Washington Apple,' and why should I never drink one, as long as I live?
first place in the division, loss in the first round of the playoffs.
what inspires you?
Big time fan of what you do, Drew!!! Here's the thing though: Can you go into depth about how awesome Schlomo Rabinowitz is to America? Isn't he just a National Treasure or what? Please make an extensive list.
Why did you cover Tech and what got you started?
Pebble or Apple Watch? Why?
2 oz Crown Royal Canadian whisky 2 oz DeKuyper Sour Apple Pucker schnapps 2 oz cranberry juice  it doesn't taste like alcohol and will get you drunk fast.
What's the most useless mainstream technology?
people who know what they want to do or be and then try their hardest to make it happen. honestly, if you know what you want and go for it, even if it's not in a direct way, you can accomplish a lot of things.
I know stem cell transplants have come a long way in recent years. Is the reason you didn't get one in 2009 because the technology wasn't available yet or because this form of Hodgkin's that returned is somehow different?
Schlomo is best described as "the internet." He's a walking meme with a heart of gold and has basically done anything you can think of.
On a scale of 1-10 how would you rate the incidence of sexism in the tech start up world?
Tech has always been my first love. My first job ever was at Digital City Philadelphia (AOL) when I was 16. I just sat there in chat rooms and they asked me questions about what I'd do to the product to make it better.  Zee at The Next Web asked me to write about #BlameDrewsCancer  one day and I never looked back.
K ;)
Apple Watch, because it works with everything Apple nerds already have. Honestly, seeing the ecosystem Apple built with iOS/iPhone, you can imagine that it'll happen all over again with the Watch. Exciting times.
Ugh. Painful and probably true. 
How old were you when you were first diagnosed?
I think anything that wants to suck you in completely is "useless." While gaming is great, if you're losing hours upon hours to anything, it's not a good thing. Tech that lets you dip in, learn something or enjoy something and then get back out is best.
Drew,   Thanks for taking the time to do this!      What is involved in an auto stem cell transplant?   Is it a long process?      Wishing you (another) speedy recovery! 
A few reasons:  - It was my first time. - It was way way new. - It was way way expensive  The reason why they're doing this now is because it is very rare for the exact same version of Hodgkins (stage 3, but not a variation/mutation like CD20) to come back within 5 years. They see "resetting" my immune system as a cure.
[deleted]
If you could be either /u/kn0thing or Jony Ive for a day, who would you be and why?
I think before anyone answers that, you have to pick apart what you mean by sexism. Basically, do I think that talented women get enough high power jobs in Silicon Valley? No, absolutely not. Because they are women. That blows.
Do you think Chip Kelly knows what he's doing and will they trade up for Mariotta?
On a scale of 1 to Paul Allen, how much do you love Apple?  **Edit:** I meant Steve Jobs, but fuck it.
[deleted]
Drew, even though you're an Eagles fan, I like you and I want to help. We just had a great story about blood + bone marrow donations [on this week's upvoted](https://www.reddit.com/r/Upvoted/comments/2y1tvk/episode_8_the_serendipity_of_giving/) and personal stories, like yours, have a way of compelling people to do something that really only takes a few minutes and could save a life.  Why should someone reading this AMA sign up to swab their mouth?
It's really fascinating, I have to be honest with you.  Here's what I've gone through so far:  Phase one after lots of tests: - 3 4 day chemo treatments  Phase two (4 weeks in hospital): - 4 days of high-dose chemo - Shots of something called nupogen that artificially inflate my white blood cell count - Collection of stem cells from me  Phase 3 (4 weeks in hospital, what i'm waiting to do as we speak):  - 6 days of high dose chemo - I get my collected/frozen stem cells back  - They regenerate  Phase 4:  - Come home for 4 weeks and don't leave the house since my immune system is regenerating.
Almost 30. It was April 2009. I'm 35 now.
I think Chip Kelly is a great college head coach. If his approach (flip over the roster every 4 years) works in the NFL, he'll win a bunch of Super Bowls. If not, it's back to college for him. Either way, beats sucking.
Wow. I'd never really thought of being anyone else. So let's say if I hung out with Alexis, which I have.  I'd probably pick his brain on how reddit has becoming this amazing place where great people hang out and discuss things that they love. I'd probably want to know more about the bad things that happened along the way, as those are things that shape the great things. Also, I'd probably ask him what other ideas he has. Jony Ive? Well. I wouldn't bother him, so he can invent the next great thing.
LOL. I'd say Steve Jobs. I never loved Apple because of the "cult" type following. Am I one of the cult now? I guess. I just truly believe they make products that make our lives easier.
Eagles for life.  So here's the thing. Giving actual bone marrow hurts like a bitch. I mean, it HURTS. They stick a corkscrew in your ass bone. BUT. You don't have to go through that pain until a *match* is found.  That means someone who needs your bone marrow to potentially live longer or live healthier needs *YOU*  That pain I just described? Lasts less than 3 days. That's why.
Are you ever going to give me my sneakers back?
Nope. Orange is my favorite color and they're a reminder of how truly caring and giving another human being can be. You didn't even miss a beat, you just gave them to me.
Chickenburger or Apple Watch?
Chickenwatch.
When are we going to Vegas, and do they have good karaoke bars there?
Ok you can keep them then.
Sometime in May probably? There aren't good karaoke bars, but they have karaoke stages *everywhere* so you can hop from spot to spot, which is fun.
Which karaoke song would you choose if you could just sing one every time you go for the rest of your life?
Wild Thing by the Troggs. There's actually a long story behind it. 
Who's your Dido, and how much does the answer depend on how well you can see?
My Dido (no L) is you, Ramzi. I can't sing Stan at karaoke without someone singing backup. I've had quite a few people try to nail it, but you my friend truly did. 
What has been your most rewarding job? 
what did you want to be growing up?
Tech journalist, by far. I really liked listening to people talk about what they're working on and trying to tell the story in an interesting way to readers and tech fans/users. Covering Google was fascinating because I saw the company as a big huge puzzle. Everything they do is somehow connected, I just wanted to figure out how. It was challenging, too, which is key. 
You are shrunk to the height of a nickel and your mass is proportionally reduced so as to maintain your original density. You are then thrown into an empty glass blender. The blades will start moving in 60 seconds. What do you do?
You're assuming I'm grown up, which I'm not ;)  I wanted to be an astronaut so bad that it hurt. I wanted to explore things that nobody had ever seen. I wanted to do things that people would get to do fifty years from now and make it better and safer for them when they did. I'm obsessed with space, everything about it, including NASA, and always have been.
What's the worst part of this whole process? 
but you touch yourself so well!
How are you going to spend your first day cancer-free / post-transplant?
I say "Go Go Gadget Apple Watch" and I grow to my original size, thus shattering the blender and shutting down the blade. Then I have to buy a new blender.
1) never grow up. 2) I met Richard Garriot once - and he had the same story, except he paid some crazy Russians a ton, and they took him to space. Never say never!
With my dogs and cats. Snuggling.  I get to see friends and family in the hospital, which helps me get through things. I have the internet to help me talk to everyone else and keep up to date on things. Nothing brings me closer to my pups, which should be a part of a treatment in hospitals. I believe that. They calm and center me.
OoooOOOO. AHHHHH.
What's the first place you're going to after Phase 4 is complete?
Ugh. Not sure how to answer that, because it's all worst.  I would say when new things are done to me. I've had chemo. I've had my blood drawn hundreds and hundreds of times. But when something new, like a neck catheter creeps up, I am reminded I'm no longer in control of my life.  There it is, the worst thing. Losing control of you life completely.
Without a doubt, Berlin, to see my EyeEm family. 
I'm also a crazy Russian, so I'm sensing a trend. If anyone knows that guy from Virgin Galactic, I don't like handouts...BUT i'd take this one.
Is there a piece of technology that you were excited about in the past 10 years but didn't quite meet your expectations when you finally got your hands on it? What about technology you initially didn't like but were surprised by how useful/applicable it was when you had a chance to use it.   How many tattoos do you currently have? Any plans for more?
Are you ever going to stop drinking vodka cranberry and pick a grownup's drink instead? Can I pick the new drink for you?
Hi Drew!      How has tech changed for you over the last 10 years?   What made you change from reporting tech to working in communications for tech companies?  
The tech I was excited about but didn't meet expectations was Google Glass. I don't believe it's "done" as a product or tech, but I really expected more to come out of it and faster. That's the thing about tech, you can't fall in love with things until you use it, and probably if it's early tech it won't be perfect for years.  I really didn't like Facebook at all. I knew it was the Yellow/Whitepages 2.0 and I wanted to not use it because it was ugly. But to stay in close contact with everyone I've ever met and enjoyed hanging out with? Facebook is it.  I have 40 and definitely want more. I'm saving space for when I maybe have kids one day so I can get some sappy kid tattoos.
I would have guessed the nearest starbucks? :)
How long after the treatment will your hair grow back?
Tech has changed for me mostly because I don't have to work as hard to get things done. I remember having a PC with DOS and having to work for every single function to be carried out. Complex little lines of commands and all. It made me inquisitive and persistent though, but with everything being so easy, you can spend more time on capturing a great moment with a photo rather than knowing the innards of it, for example.  Journalism to comms was natural. Before I wrote about tech I was a community manager, which is a catch all position. A little comms, a little marketing. Basically I love helping companies that I care about by helping to tell stories to people who use their products. When I was a journalist I could help enact change by calling companies out on their shit. I actually still do that even though I should probably shut up ;)
Can I do anything to convince you to give up on the Eagles?
On my head? Never, because I was going bald anyways.  Everywhere else? No clue. I started getting facial hair again after the phase 2 chemo, but it was baby-fine, which made me look like I was 12.
Oh I get Starbucks in the hospital ;)
Nope, I was born and raised a Philadelphia sports fan. If I gave up on my teams, my Dad would disown me. Seriously.
Thanks. Drew! I enjoy our occasional Twitter banter too. Please post more dog pics. :D
If there were no dog pics, life would realllllllly suck.
Awesome answer, thank you!  
I'm always open for new drinks, but I like getting tipsy without tasting alcohol.
If you and I could start a company and build an app solely on the Apple Watch, what would it be? Also, can't wait to hang with you again soon!
Hi Drew, did you see the [recent VICE documentary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e8SvBAjXGyQ) about fighting cancer with viruses? What do you think about those treatments?  (I know nothing about cancer and cancer treatments. Just wondering if you've read or heard anything about this stuff and how viable it is, if you're interested in it, etc)
Post-treatment you need to choose between getting a monkey tattoo drawn by me, quitting smoking, or starting to exercise regularly. Which one do you choose? 
I believe you! I have lived almost 40 of my 48+ years in the Philly area, so I know how Philly Fandom works. :)
I did, and it freaked me the hell out. Mostly because of the graphic visuals and how familiar it all felt.   I'm not a Dr. or a researcher or chemist, but it's hard not to get excited about these types of treatments. I've read about cancer drugs kicking the shit out of AIDS, which means that this stuff can work: http://www.nydailynews.com/life-style/health/aids-cure-breakthrough-scientists-cancer-drug-flush-virus-article-1.1123136  More than anything, I want to be a patient advocate that helps this stuff get to the right people as quickly as possible. VICE's documentary got people talking, which is more than has happened in the past. Usually this stuff stays quiet until approved by the FDA.
Can't wait either! I'll be at UCSF for a few weeks if you're ever bored ;)  App based on the watch. I think it'd probably be something in AI technology. Siri still feels really old and boring, but I'd want to do complex things with spoken word. Voice to IFTTT.
http://i.imgur.com/hH1MouN.png
Already quit smoking. An evil evil habit. Exercise is so important, but a monkey tattoo is the goal. I can't get tattoos now because of the type of cancer I have (immune system/blood)
[deleted]
I have to come up with a question, so I'll do that in a sec. But first I just wanted to say that I love you brother. Your friendship, no matter the distance, has become one of my most prized possessions.   OK, a question. Just how far over the line can I safely go with jokes on Alex Wilhelm before being accused of something truly nefarious? 
Drew - I've been following you on Twitter since your first run-in with the big C. Afterwards, you and I conversed a few times and I think you're a really cool guy. I signed up with Be the Match because of my interactions with you.  My question: What is your current relationship like with Drew Carey? Do y'all stay in touch? Is he as cool/funny in real life as he is on TV?  Thanks, Drew!
YOU QUIT SMOKING??? :-D
What have been the best and worst parts about "crossing over to the dark side" from journalism to comms?
First off, thank you for the support. When I had cancer the first time, I  really honestly didn't know anything about it. I use Twitter as a place to braindump so it was raw. It's always me. People replying and chatting and supporting me got me through it all. The only email Steve Jobs ever responded to was me thanking him for the iPhone. It's what kept me going during treatment.  Drew and I are really close. Whenever I'm in LA he invites me over and we stay in constant contact via text. He's offered to help me in so many ways, and keeps me laughing. He's a genuine guy, has a huge huge amazing heart and would do anything for anyone.
&lt;3 &lt;3 &lt;3 At the end of the day, love and friendship is all we have. We can't take anything else with us when we go. I truly believe that.  Alex? Game on, he can take it. Jump the line. Back up into it. Stomp on it. That kid is tough as nails.
What is your position on the role of government in supporting innovation in the field of biotechnology? 
Great question. Ok, the worst part first. Sometimes the company I work for won't let me tell a story or give the 110% true answer. Not that I'd ever lie, but I definitely have been held back from sticking with my instincts. It has been nice seeing some of my hard work come through in the past few weeks (I won't mention via where ;))  Best? I can help journalists tell the story they want to tell, whether it be bad, good, both or neither. When I work at a company I want talented people to do talented things and not worry about pulling it all together to share with the press, partners, etc. That's my job!
In 2013 you interviewed me after a TechCrunch Hackathon.  http://techcrunch.com/2013/04/28/disrupt-ny-hackathon-gets-hacked-man-takes-stage-and-uses-his-60-seconds-to-disrupt-capitalism/  That led to an opportunity to speak at DEFCON 21. Thank you.  Since then I have attended several TC events and have been treated pretty shitty. In NYC last year, I went with 3 others and all of us were kept out of the Disrupt conference. Out of 92 teams, they last minute decided to only award 75 teams with tickets. Our 3  teams were not only disrespected on stage, but all of us were kept from getting tickets to Disrupt. A "new rule" made up the day of the event. Apparently we were too...disruptive, at Disrupt?  In November of last year, TC banned me from making comments on their articles. They are silencing technological process intentionally through censorship.  Now I don't expect you to say anything negative against TC or anyone in the industry. Leave that to me.  My question is, could you please contact me if you are truly interested in telling stories and changing this world?  Thanks Drew.  Todd Bonnewell
Why do you and Hofmann insist on making everyone do Prairie Fire shots?!?!
I know you have some ink. Will you get some when the treatment is over and you're cancer free? What would you get? 
Drew have you tried cannabinoids to treat your cancer? We fortunate to have a dispensary here in the bay area that has high potency CBD plant extract. Tommy Chong used it to cure his prostate cancer and I use it to treat my Crohn's disease with great results. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBzdzcnHY5M https://www.stickyguide.com/dispensaries/craft-collective/products/cbd-full-plant-extract--2
It's about time. The government has this effect of until they get involved it's not a "thing." Which sucks. But honestly, I think that the Obama administration, if anything, gets technology better than any other administration. Laws have to change about visas, funds need to be given via grants and diversity needs to be pushed and supported in our field. I hope that the next administration doesn't drop the ball, because technology makes the world go round these days.
peanut butter pickle sandwiches. yay or nay?
I have not looked into this specifically: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cannabinoid  However, I can openly say that this time around with cancer I have embraced legal cannabis from time to time. I have felt quite a bit of bone pain, nausea and anxiety this time around and without a doubt believe in the use of medical marijuana.   I'll look into this cannabinoid stuff, thank you!!!
Hey Drew, next time your in L.A. I'll buy you a drink. ;)  Skip
tried it. gross. peanut butter and jelly sandwich with a pickle on the side? yes.
Yes. Yes. Yes. I can't wait to get more ink. I'm working on a piece on my left arm (sleeve) which revolves around a Tesla coil. I have to add more little lightningy bolt thingies.   Since all of my ink has a story, I'll definitely want to come up with one that covers the stem cell transplant. Maybe one of the machine that collected the cells from me? Or a cell itself? I'm up for ideas.
Ok this is a Hoffman thing, it's not me whatsoever. However, it has become a tradition and I have a thing for tradition. They are so freaking gross they make me want to vomit. So let's do one soon.
Hey there! I remember you :) You definitely disrupted Disrupt. I can't speak for them at all, however, I do know that they are kind and fine folks.   Yes, email me at drdrew @ gmail.com and I'd love to hear what you're up to!
SKIP! Yasssss. Congrats on showing cancer the door.
Yea, I think the voice commands will be huge. I will come visit you.
Also would have accepted: Recent research has shown that empirical evidence for globalization of corporate innovation is very limited and as a corollary the market for technologies is shrinking. As a world leader, it's important for America to provide systematic research grants for our scientists. I believe strongly there will always be a need for us to have a well-articulated innovation policy with emphasis on human resource development. Thank you. 
Sweet. I'll be wearing my Mariota jersey when I see you.
If you had to have a celebrity visit you as a superhero, who would it be and why?
http://imgur.com/gallery/NCSBEVG
Ooof. A celebrity. As a superhero. I would really like to have met Christopher Reeve. He didn't even need to wear a Superman outfit, he WAS Superman.  One of his quotes will always live on with me:  "A hero is an ordinary individual who finds the strength to persevere and endure in spite of overwhelming obstacles."
What was your favorite episode, character, or skit from The Best Damn Tech Show Period? Please don't say Geek Psychic.
How much wood can a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood?
Does the woodchuck have braces?
"He fuckin fellllll!"
Also when I hosted Matt Mullenweg's episode. I was beyond drunk.
Who knows? It could. Does that variable affect the quantity of wood being chucked?
First: I just completed my registration on [BeTheMatch.org](http://www.bethematch.org/). More people here should do the same.  Now my question: Are there any stories in your years of tech reporting that you regret covering or in hindsight feel like you got wrong?
First: THANK YOU SO MUCH. Seriously means a lot to a lot of people. If you ever become a match, just call me and I'll come to wherever you are.  I got a lot of things wrong, but I tried to always suggest people take things with a grain of salt if I wasn't 100% sure of something. But as far as passing on a story, I should have really not written this: http://techcrunch.com/2013/02/15/thanks-for-the-15-minute-break-wordpress/  I believe in WordPress, truly. However, their VIP services had annoying outages quite a bit around that time. I shouldn't have clicked publish over 15 little minutes, but sometimes what we do is pretty intense from a timing perspective, so it was based on that personal frustration. My editor at the time, Eric Eldon told me the error of my ways and I learned quite a bit.
Not really.
Awesome, thanks for your time :) I wish you all the best and a speedy recovery!  (- @SamHouston)
much appreciated sir! this phase *should* be the last hurdle. fingers crossed.
Are you still scared, or do you feel like the worst is behind you now?
Thanks! Gonna try to keep it that way.
Hey drew, a few more:  1. Where is the NASDAQ in 12 months? 2. How will Box preform on their first earnings? 3. Are you buying an Apple watch? 4. Can I blame you for Kyle Russell?  A  
Still scared, probably always will be. Even after I beat cancer the first time, I always looked behind my back wondering if it would come back. Sadly, this caused me to not want to go to the doctor for proper checkups. I was lucky that nothing bad happened during that time.  This time I feel more confident that I won't have to deal with it again, but I'm still scared about what's coming. The chemo that I'm getting is really gnarly and while it won't kill me, I may feel worse than I ever have in my life. Just have to remember that this too shall pass.
- Crashed. - Great. - Yes. - Yes.
Why aren't you meerkatting your AMA? 
Fine. I'll fire it up. 
What is the worst thing that you've ever been pitched on, that actually went on to do very well? 
Worst thing that actually went on was Snapchat. I thought it was stupid. Absolutely stupid. Just wasn't the right audience for it. 
How has cancer changed or impacted your view on the tech industry?
I'm definitely more cynical in the sense that my tolerance for bullshit is gone. I also tend to think of tech as a life enhancer than a life replacer. I like tech that lets me spend more time with my fiance. Not takes me away. 
Pretty excited that you did this, btw. I thought you'd tell me to go to hell. Sad part was that I was on a call while it was happening, but I multi-tasked my way through. Your San Mateo Lyfts aren't nearly as entertaining as our high #twitterjuice SF Lyfts. That's probably a good thing.
[deleted]
Actually most marrow these days is harvested through your veins using a marrow growth factor. The process takes a little longer, but is relatively painless compared to straight marrow collection. Donors have a choice, they can do the "old-school" marrow donation straight from their marrow or use the drug injections and do something akin to donating blood-- much, much more painless. 
I'm a psychologist for a cancer center and work with our bone marrow transplant program. First off, thank you so much for doing this AMA. It will help so many people. I have to add, for most people, the hardest part is the confinement. Side effects come and go, but being trapped in the room... sucks. The epicenter of side effects is 7-12 days after you actually receive your own stem cells back, and are waiting to engraft. Use the Ativan while you're in the hospital (watch out though, it can be habit forming) and watch lots of TV. The stuff works whether you're awake or asleep! I think the most helpful thing to do is to set up a video game console, streaming Netflix, and other activities. Change what you're doing every couple of hours so you don't get in a rut. Some days though the rut feels about as good as it gets. Spend lots of time on Reddit. 
The site bonemarrow.gift that you built is helping a lot.  If someone is your match and they're in say, Germany, be the match can coordinate the bone marrow/cells to be transferred to the U.S.  Basically registries talk to each other!
So awesome to know. Thank you!! Even better. 
Thanks for the advice. Yes. The last hospital stay got to me but the internet helps! 
