Do you feel guilty or responsible for the criticism that Photoshop gets for causing negative effects on the self esteem of many males and females around the globe due it's usage to change bodies to imperfectly-perfect forms; and would you be willing to stand up against this in a campaign to encourage youth to embrace themselves as unique?
[deleted]
Too bad Adobe doesn't do this. My school gives Freshmen a "gearbox" containing a new laptop, and Adobe Master Collection for an extra $3,000 one time only, but then you have to buy the license in itself for another $250 extra &gt;____&gt;
Layer support I think was by far the BEST feature ever created. Now everyone's trying to include layers in their programs! Good job ;D
Hi! I [photoshopped this Navy Seal](http://imgur.com/CYz36N6) What do you think?
Would you rather be Batman or Superman?
Hey Thomas,  Can you make [this manatee](http://imgur.com/pq5ryaZ) look like he's playing the piano? Whenever I see one, I always think "hey, that manatee looks like Ray Charles, or Adrien Brody" but no one has any idea what I'm talking about.   They think I'm talking about the blubber. But it's really the posture.
What is your response to all the people pirating your products?
Do you ever think about all the incredibly weird, or even harmful, things people have done with Photoshop?
Do you have a favourite funny photoshopped picture? Also can you Generally tell yourself when a picture has been created with your program? 
So... what led to the idea of Photoshop? I'm really hoping it's some funny or silly story you can share with us. 
Well, I think Superman. Because I like to fly. I own airplanes, and I'm a pilot, so I like to fly around. So definitely Superman. 
Can YOU tell by the pixels?
Are you familiar with Photoshop battles? Have you ever done one?
Do you have any statistics on piracy? Of all the people I've known who used Photoshop, none had actually bought it due to pricing. (Maybe some have since the advent of CC, but I can't say for sure. I also know that my group of people obviously isn't representative of the entire population of users, but Adobe products tend to be pretty popular on torrent sites.) 
Hi Thomas, thanks for taking the time to do this AMA. I'm a huge fan of photoshop and have used it since is pre-creative suite days.  As a developer you probably don't have much say in the pricing policies, but are you seeing any effects of the creative suite following a subscription based model instead of the traditional one? For example building up core users while alienating casual users? For someone to now pay monthly, I imagine they must be a more dedicated user to be using it every month.   Or is it having the opposite effect, where a casual user does not feel afraid to try the product for a few months without paying the full initial cost as before?
What do you think about the way that photoshop is being used in the media nowadays?   Did you ever think that the digital alterations made to bodies in photographs would be used in such a harmful way?
Did you expect your product to explode like this? And did you create it for Adobe, or did Adobe buy it off you?
Do you master all aspects of photoshop ?
Thomas, do you remember the Center for Creative Imaging in Maine? I can't recall if you ever visited. We had Photoshop on 100 Macs there back in 1991, and taught it via classes to artists and others. (We had an unlimited license copy wired to a secret file direct from Adobe.) Photoshop to me seems so fundamentally the same despite interface changes and advances over that period of time: everything I could do in 1991 is just better, faster, more sophisticated now. Are you concerned about the current direction of the software or its evolution?
Where do you see the program going in the coming years? Do you have any game changing features in the works?
Hi, Mr. Knoll! It's great to finally put a face to the name that pops up on the splash screen every time Photoshop starts!   I have a few questions for you:   1. Are you still involved in the upkeep and upgrades of the program as it is now?  2. What is your favorite feature in the newest versions? 3. What is the most creative use of Photoshop you have seen for large audiences?   Thanks! 
Well, it sort of happened because of procrastination.  I was working on my PhD, and I got to the point of having to write my thesis, and I really hated doing that, so I wrote Photoshop instead.  It was my brother's idea to try and sell it. So he asked if he could try and shop it around to various companies. So he traveled around doing demos, and the first "bundle deal" that we did with Photoshop was with a scanner company called BarneyScan. And they bundled a beta version of Photoshop under the name "BarneyScan XP." And for a while, that was the only way to purchase Photoshop, so some people purchased the scanner just to get Photoshop. This was in 1988, the bundle happened. I started writing Photoshop in 1987, and it had gotten to be that state by 1988.  And we had always intended to find a publisher to publish it as a stand-alone piece of software, and my brother was doing demos all during this time, and the BarneyScan deal was noncompetitive, we still had the rights to sell it to a publisher, so we found Adobe and reached a handshake agreement in 1988. The final paperwork was signed in 1989.  And they actually shipped it in 1990.  And at that point, BarneyScan had to bundle the real Photoshop, rather than the beta version they had, under the name Photoshop.  We don't have perfect records going back to this time, because we didn't realize how important this was going to be, but our best estimate for the shipping date for Photoshop 1.0 was February 19, 1990.  So today is the exact 25th anniversary, from what we can tell. 
Hey, Thomas, why is roughly eighty percent of my time in photoshop spent initializing the goddamn type tool? 
Will photoshop come to linux? Pleaaaaaaase!?
Not really a favorite funny Photoshopped picture? The one that sticks in my mind is the photograph the Iranians posted of their missile launch, where they photoshopped in an extra missile. I don't really know if that's a funny photograph or not.  And it depends on how well it's done. If it's done *really* well, no. Sometimes people make mistakes, and they do things that are obviously wrong, but unless I actually examine the file myself, and run specific tools on it, often I can't tell. 
Photoshop or Sketch for UI design?
Well, it was a tool that had sort of immense versatility. And even from the very early days, people were doing things that I never imagined would even be possible. So it's sort of like asking a manufacturer of ink and paper "Can you imagine all the things people would write, or draw?"
Why did you name a photo-editing/photo manipulating program, 'PhotoShop'? Im interested in the name origin.
I don't know what you're talking about either. 
If you were stuck on a desert island what thee items/people would you want to bring?
[deleted]
Especially nowadays, with the Photoshop photography program where you can subscribe for $10 a month to both Photoshop and Lightroom, you are being very cheap if you pirate it. 
How did you come up with the names Photoshop and Adobe?
What is the best way to photoshop without people knowing you photoshopped??
I have heard of them. I've never done one. Or looked very closely at them (sorry!). 
What tool or feature are you most proud of and what inspired you to create it?
&gt; I was working on my PhD, and I got to the point of having to write my thesis, and I really hated doing that, so I wrote Photoshop instead.  The things we do instead of doing the things we are supposed to! This is a pretty cool story, thanks for sharing!  Had you written any other programs before that? Oh! And, did you actually get the PhD, and in what?
It was created for my own personal pleasure, and my brother's pleasure. So it was not until several months into development that my brother thought he could sell it as a commercial product. 
Uh...we've thought about this, many times, and the issue here is that most people who use Linux are not actually used to paying for software. 
First I really just want to thank you and everyone who developed photoshop. I love it and use it every day.  But I also use InDesign and Illustrator every day, as do many graphic designers. Why are there so many things that are similar, but not the same among these programms?  and, are you at adobe considering to improve to possibilities for animations in photoshop? right now it is rather crude without automation for scaling for example  Thank you already in advance!
Any updates on [this](https://s3.amazonaws.com/satisfaction-production/s3_images/681071/SadBedroom_BadFeature.jpg) bug?  In all seriousness, Photoshop is an amazing tool that I use everyday. Thanks for helping make it.  What do you think the future of Photoshop will be like?
Maybe someday! We have ported the code onto some Android devices, which is essentially Linux based, so it is appearing via that method on Linux. 
Do you prefer pie or cake? What type?
What's your thoughts on that people tend to use "Photoshopped" rather than "Retouched" about retouched imagery? 
Are you still involved in expanding what Photoshop can do, or is that handled by Adobe and their programmers? also If you could add any one feature that would be completely innovative what would it be?
You should check them out to see the beast you unleashed.
How do you respond to criticism of the usability of Photoshop? Talking about issues like new user learning curve, feature bloat, findability of features. How do you feel about the tradeoff between satisfying power users and making it easier for new users to learn the software? Do you think the program is designed well in terms of organization and visibility of the most-used features? Is there anything you'd change to make the program more usable? (this seems like a lot of questions but is mostly clarification of the initial question lol)
I've never heard of this. Where can I sign up?
Another similar question - with my native eye, looking at an image, if it's done very well, no. It's possible to fool an observer, even a careful observer. There are forensic tools that Adobe has experimented with where we can observe the non-visible portions of the images to look for evidence of retouching.  For example, you can look for cloning fairly easily, looking for similar patterns of pixels. 
Are there any features or functions in Photoshop that were introduced that you didn't end up knowing about until much later?
What are some non computer hobbies you have?
because you have too many fonts. Delete some or get a good font manager programm ;) all these fonts also slow down other programms ;)
Given how Photoshop has evolved over the last 25 years, do you ever wish you could start from scratch and incorporate all the cool features in a more contemporary interface?
Do you think "Photoshopped" has become a dirty word, in our culture?
Well, when I was first writing Photoshop, it was intended as a tool for graphic artists and advertising photographers and press photographers. And a lot of what they did was advertising photography, which is by its nature deceptive. So that was certainly an expected use. It was also used by news organizations, which ideally should NOT be deceptive. Like any tool - a tool can be abused, or used properly. So it's all about the ethics of the user, rather than the goodness or badness of the tool itself. 
[deleted]
https://creative.adobe.com/plans/photography
No. There are currently fairly large parts of the program which I have barely used at all. For example, in my personal work, I almost never use the 3D features of Photoshop. 
What is your favorite Movie? 
You know, like [this](http://imgur.com/aoOzhvF) kinda
Yep. I love the new cloud based model.
Who thought of the name Photoshop?
There are many brain groupies out there. Do you have to beat the ladies off with a stick or do you indulge?
As a Web developer where all of our designers use photoshop, it's the only piece of software that has me tied to either windows or Mac. How far along are you with that browser based Ps I heard about?
How about before the subscription model? If you wanted the whole enchilada you'd need to drop $1000 for CS5.
Well, Photoshop has been on the market for 25 years, and it started as a market leader in its category, and it still is a market leader in its category, and there are very few programs that can say that. In fact, when Photoshop 1.0 was written, personal computers were less than 25 years old. And over the 25 years of Photoshop, computers have evolved tremendously in their processing capability, and the hardware people are using has changed dramatically over that time period. And it's been evolving constantly, to adapt to changes in hardware and changes in market requirements. It will change, obviously, and continue to evolve, and we have a number of initiatives to improve it in many different aspects. But I believe it can evolve to meet future demands also.  
What's the most surprising direction Photoshop has taken to you since you've helped realize it?
How much RAM would I need to make Photoshop work on a purely RAM Scratch Disk?
answer from someone who studies interfaces and their history: I'd assume it had to do with the tendency of early software devs to pull inspiration from actual, real-world objects. Example: files, desktop, folders. These have no meaning in terms of the computer, but that's what we decided to call things. It was all meant to make new users associate foreign things to something they know, helping them acclimate to tech. So... My guess is they wanted to make it sound like something users would know, like a car body shop or somewhere that fixes stuff in the real world.
Sweet! Thanks!
What do you think of the CC system? Now we pay money for a certain time, but when we had CS, we had the possibility to buy it for one single time, for the rest of the time. Do you like the system? And is there a reason why we have to use the new system?
Well, I use programming tools so that when I get down to detailed design of user interfaces, I'm actually writing the code that generates the user interface directly, rather than creating an image and having to go back and write code to create that interface. That's mostly because I'm a computer programmer rather than an interface designer, so it's easier for me to use the tools directly rather than draw an image and try to replicate that. 
The very first program that would evolve into Photoshop had fairly limited ability to change images. It could mostly read images from multiple file formats, display them at  multiple screen resolutions, and then write them out in various file formats. So this first version was called "Display."  And then as John and I added image processing features to Photoshop, we changed the name we were calling it to "ImagePro," and then we heard of an existing application called "ImagePro," so we called it "PhotoLab." And then we heard of ANOTHER existing application called "PhotoLab."  So then we came up with Photoshop as the code name. And all this time, we were expecting the publisher we found to do market research and come up with a *real* name. So Adobe did their market research, and called it Photoshop. 
When you were finished with the first version of Photoshop did you ever imagine people would make things like Kim Jong Un riding a pug ?   Also I would like to thank you and all those nice people at Adobe, I have recently subscribed to full on Creative Cloud with everything included and I got to say... THANK YOU for such a great product. 
[How sued are these people?](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4108/5080515830_8dd65dc1da_m.jpg)
Thanks for the awesome program dude! What's the one feature you wish you never implemented in any release and why?
My significant other, something to connect to the internet, and a laptop, probably!
Did you ever think it would be used beyond photography the way it has? Specifically to design websites and drive the visual aspect of what the World Wide Web became?
What's your opinion on The GIMP?
[The original icon was of a 1hr "photo shop"](http://coronalabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/original-photoshop-icon.jpg)
Hahahaha!
I'm spoken for at the moment, so... 
GROUNDHOG DAY. 
Photography (which is related to Photoshop pretty directly). I also enjoy flying airplanes, and I've been doing that since flying gliders in college, and then later on. And I enjoy playing golf, and riding bicycles. 
Classic, great choice. 
how do you feel about the term 'Photoshop' entering the American lexicon as a verb for any sort of photo manipulation? 
[deleted]
Are photoshop forensic tools available for purchase? I'd be very interested in having the ability to verify photos are accurate for court cases and such.
http://www.reddit.com/r/photoshopbattles/ Here you go :)
You really should advertise this a bit more. I was under the assumption that PS was still like $700
Have you ever swam in all of your money like Scrooge McDuck? Please say yes.
I have worked on Photoshop and Photoshop-related programs at Adobe ever since version 1.0.  Over that time, the Photoshop team has grown from 1 programmer (for version 1 - me), to probably 50 programmers at the moment.  For the last 12 years or so, I've been working on the camera raw plugin to Photoshop, which is also used by Adobe as the develop module for Adobe Lightroom.  If I knew what that would be, I probably would have added it. So if you're talking about a fictional feature - what everybody wants as a fictional feature is a button that makes your images look perfect!
Depends on how big your images are. 
Well, you're welcome! And John was doing demos of pre-version 1 of Photoshop copy-pasting and duplicating people in images, so that kind of thing was expected already. 
Neither, actually! I don't have a sweet tooth!
Are you happy with the way Photoshop has turned out over the years? Is there anything about it that you wish was different?
How did your parents help to make you into such a successful person? Did they push you toward a conventional career, or did they encourage you to dream big?
What inspired you to design this program and how did you get it off the ground?
Hey there. Former pirater of Photoshop now I have creative cloud and never looked back. My questions are. Did you think the previous price tag was worth the money? And do you get Photoshop for free as you co-founded it?
As we were doing Photoshop 1.0, we had very basic tools for manipulating images, and the goal was to create a tool where you could do anything you wanted with an image. So anytime a good Photoshop is doing something, it surprises me what they're doing, because it's not something I would know how to do personally. I'm surprised by the skill of individual users doing things. But the goal all along was to create a very versatile program where you could do anything you could think of. 
What's the most amazing improvement to PS since it's creation in your opinion? I'm always impressed by the *content aware fill* intelligence. Saves a lot of time. Thanks for the AMA.
Did you finish your PhD?  What were you studying specifically?  Did you ever use it, or has Photoshop pretty much been your job ever since?
Classes and practice, basically. 
The thing in version 1 of Photoshop that I'm most proud of having done is the Levels adjustment dialogue. Which was basically invented by me, I don't think there were any analogues in any software that had the same kind of interface. My favorite feature of Photoshop, over the years, was when we added Layer Support in version 3.
surely. Filesizes may reach 1-2GB (mainly because of Smart Objects) But they are to usefull to not use them all the time, even if they slow everything down very severe.
What do you think of Pixelmator?
Are you experienced with Photoshop? Have you ever used it to your advantage in a tough situation? 
I can't tell you yet, but they'll be exciting!
Did you sell the entire Photoshop project? And are you still involved in the project at all? 
What gave you the idea to create an app like photoshop and how did you get the idea off the ground where so many others have failed?
*giggles*  I started working as a professional computer programmer when I was in 11th grade. And I worked on writing smart terminal software for a company called MDSI. And I worked half-time during the school years and full time during the summers, all the way through the rest of high school and through undergraduate college.   No, I never finished my PhD. 
Great response. 
Wouldn't we all love that button haha, and thank you for your response
HAHAHAHA!  All my money is digital. It's hard to do. 
Hi Thomas, first I want to express my acknowledgement for this software, that I love. Well, my question is: Who is seetharaman narayanan?
[deleted]
They were always very supportive of all 3 Knoll brothers, encouraging us to do what we wanted to do in life. I sort of backed into Photoshop because of procrastination (as I said earlier). It took me a while to figure out exactly what i wanted to do. I figured I would be an amateur computer programmer and find something "real" to do. 
What Photoshop image that you've personally altered are you most proud of?
Does the 3rd Knoll brother wish he worked with you 2 Photoshop makers on the original program? Tell the truth - how jealous is he?
Well, as long as people still know about the *real* Adobe Photoshop, and are aware that Adobe makes a program called Photoshop, and it's the real thing, I'm actually kind of happy that they use "Photoshop" as a verb.  Adobe Legal is probably less happy. 
Well, we wrote version 1 of Photoshop before the web even existed. So I certainly had not had that particular application in mind when we were writing Photoshop. 
For reference: http://thelede.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/07/10/in-an-iranian-image-a-missile-too-many/
Yeah they had some good and some...bad... outcomes^^^with ^^^the ^^^cheerleader...  ^^^^you ^^^^know 
Who does? lol just kidding. I'v seen it used once... ONCE! 
Well, as an Adobe employee, I don't actually have to pay for it (to answer that question). And I though the pricing model for the Creative Cloud, with all the Adobe Applications, was actually very fair. I had my concerns about the pricing model for Photoshop and Lightroom, which I feel Adobe has resolved very well with their photography program. In the US, it's $10 a month (or $9.99 in marketingspeak). 
What is your favorite book?
Did you ever think it would become such a photo editing staple? Like 'to photoshop an image' is its own verb now .... also what do you do now?... any software breakthroughs since?
Content Aware Fill is the technology in Photoshop that amazed *ME* the most, because I don't really know how it works under the hood myself. 
I still find it bizarre some of the possibilties with photoshop, the versatility of the program is amazing!
I've actually seen that store, myself. I'm not in charge of that, so... 
I know the creative cloud pricing is awesome. I pay for that now. I meant the older price point for Photoshop that was around 600-700 I believe. What was your thoughts on that price?
What's your favorite photoshopped image?
What was the first thing you wanted to Photoshop? (not including testing the software)
Hahaha!  One of the features of Photoshop is that it is very powerful, and anything you can imagine doing, there's probably some way of doing it.  Which is also a downside for many users, because there are probably 10 ways of doing anything you imagine!  So when I was working on the feature set for Camera Raw and the develop module of Lightroom, we looked at all the things that people wanted to do to photographs, and tried to only allow the best method of doing a specific action. So I would recommend that new users start in Adobe Lightroom, and learn that feature-set, because it guides you to what kind of operations you want to do on images, and only use Photoshop when you find something in Lightroom that you *can't* do that you wanna do. 
Does it make you sad that I only use GIMP?
To me, 1988 was a long time ago (before I was born!). I'm a programmer myself and have an interest in the history of programming. So I want to ask what programming languages did you use to create version 1.0 and what platforms did you support?
Ahh I see. Well thanks for answering my question. That sucks that two of the names you came up with were already used. I am happy that Photoshop stayed. That image looks 'labbed' doesn't have the same ring to it. 
What are you most proud of? Creating a class-leading and innovative graphics manipulation package? Or giving the English language a new verb? 
When was the earliest time you recall "photoshop" being used as a verb? How did that strike you?
I was doing demos, because it was just fun to do. Before Photoshop, it really wasn't possible to do on a personal computer many of the things Photoshop 1.0 could do. It was just so much fun to take a scanned image and change it. That was a pleasure in and of itself. At the time, there wasn't a good way to get images out of Photoshop for an individual user, because you had to create 4 color separations and had to make a printing press run to get the individual image - there were no inkjet printers at the time.  So there was very little I could *DO* with a processed image at the time, for Photoshop 1.0, as an individual user.  I had a number of demo files - I was mostly working with scanned images of other people's photographs, and manipulating them. My brother - for many of the early demos he did while showing off Photoshop - used a scanned photograph of his fiancee on a beach in Tahiti - he called the photograph "Jennifer in Paradise." 
I love it. It's much easier to paint a diffuse map directly onto an object, rather than having to paint it on the flat map.
at least give us a hint :D nobody at adobe will ever know *wink*
What is amazing in photoshop?? 
Mr.knoll,  what's the best way to make a lightning bolt using photoshop? also, what are the best methods for making lens flares? 
To be honest, I don't read any Photoshop book. Is this a book in general?  My favorite book is "Surely you're joking, Mr. Feynman!" by Ralph Leighton and Richard Feynman. 
Glad I wasn't the only one who thought of this response...
Seetha is one of the principal engineers on the Photoshop team.
[deleted]
Never really his thing. He works on designing point-of-purchase displays in supermarkets and drugstores. So when you walk into a supermarket, and you see this thing blocking the aisle, you can blame him. And he probably does use Photoshop for some things. 
[deleted]
Thanks for making of a program that has been the cornerstone of my hobbies and my professional life!  I'm curious though, with the newest editions of photoshop implementing continuously more robust vector tools, barebones video composting, and even 3D tools, is photoshop's end game a full media creation and editing package? Or are these features just designed to broaden your photo (and video?) editing options?
:D thank you!
What is the most amazing thing you've ever seen photoshopped?
Did you have anything to do with Fireworks being discontinued? 
Having been so close to the product for so many years do you ever get tired of hearing about it? Maybe think, "ehh I'm going to go develop something completely different." 
Over time, there was no such thing as a perpetual copy of Photoshop, because computer hardware changed, and operating systems changed, to the point where very old software stopped running because of operating changes. So essentially, you're always on a subscription program, it's just a matter of the schedule for that.   As a computer programmer working on these products, the subscription model changed the incentives for what features we work on. Now the goal of the programmer is to make changes and features that make it easier to use and keep our existing customers happy, and we can work on *those* features, and we don't have to spend as much time on flashy features that look good in demo, but may not be as useful in real life.  
I own Photoshop CS5, CS6 Design/Web and I'm a paying subscriber to CC - one of the main reasons I'm not on Linux is the lack of CC support.   It'd be nice to see if a Linux base can turn around the declining stability and speed.
Lightning bolt - i've never created one myself. This is one of those categories of features or questions where there are other people in the world who are a lot better than me. And "lens flare" was actually an issue that my brother was trying to add to movie films, and he actually sold some plug-ins to Photoshop to create lens flares. So they're out there. 
About 12 years ago, I stopped working on the main Photoshop application, and started working on the Camera Raw plug-in to Photoshop. Which, over this time period, has acquired more and more image processing features by itself. So, in a way, my goal is to write the new version of Photoshop inside Camera Raw, and turn Photoshop into a plug-in for Camera Raw. Which I sort of achieved in Lightroom, in that for my own images, 80% of them are only processed in Lightroom, and only 20% of them also include Photoshop processing. 
[deleted]
What features can we look forward to in the future? 
Well, at a fundamental level, Photoshop differs from the other Adobe applications in that it's a raster of pixels - either all the time, or things get rendered down into rasters of pixels. And for many applications, that's actually good enough to design single-page ads and such. 
Do you even photoshop bro?
Well, it's kind of the same thing? 
As the world's leading Photoshop expert, you must have seen quite a few 'shops in your time. When something is faked, can you tell from some of the pixels?
To add some detail here, the Guardian did a great piece on this picture a while ago: http://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/photography-blog/2014/jun/13/photoshop-first-image-jennifer-in-paradise-photography-artefact-knoll-dullaart
$120 a year might be cheap if you invented photoshop.
Do you personally feel that Photoshop is the best tool for web designers, or do you feel PS is best reserved for professional organizing and other web designers should be seeking out other alternatives that are more focused on web?  
[deleted]
It was a Macintosh application at the time. And it was written approximately 90% in Object Pascal, and the remaining 10% in Motorola 68,000 Assembly Code. 
First off, thank you! I'm a daily Photoshop user for years now. Love it!  What are your thoughts on Adobe's move to subscription-based software. It's obviously an industry-based move too, I'm sure, as most software or services are monthly charges instead of one main purchase. But it's no secret PS is the most pirated software. Was the move mainly to combat that?  Personally, I know it's gotten Photoshop into the hands of a lot more people, legally. That too was a huge goal too I'd bet.   Ether way, thanks again for doing this today and thanks for all the hardwork over the last 25 years with many more to come! 
We translated everything into C++ for version 2.5 when we did the port to Windows, because Windows did not have an Object Pascal compositor. 
Who came up with the name?
Why can't we see some new filters like a bottom reflection?   Yes, I know there are filter haters but this program is used by many different types of users.
I'm not the person to ask. We will continue to evolve the application, to adjust to the hardware and market demands, and I think it has a bright future, yes. There's a massive transition in the industry going on between desktop computers down to laptops, and now laptops down to tablets and phones, and Photoshop is trying to follow that path. 
'Adobe' is the name of the creek behind one of the company's founder's house. 
 Have you ever sent someone close a photoshopped picture of something crazy?
Yes:) a book in general, I guess Lemon Cream Tea is quite good just like Photoshop:)
So....Obama's birth certificate?  
What's your favorite photoshop tool?
Well, each of the applications had sort of a different underlying model they were based off of. Photoshop was based on the concept of a raster of pixels. And Illustrator was based off everything being Bezier curves. And InDesign was based off of the concept of a blank piece of paper. So as we added features to each application, there ended up being a lot of overlap - they were fundamentally based on low-level design ideas.  
Have you tried any other tools for doing that, though? Mudbox, Substance Painter, Mari (can rent it on steam for $10/mo now), etc? The performance and UI in Photoshop are just abysmal for this.
It's still the tool of choice for many web designers when they are doing their work, so it hasn't become less powerful over time as a tool for doing web design. 
The goal to move to a subscription software was based more on an attempt to reduce the barriers to entry for Photoshop, so that the massive purchase cost at the start of a new user experience was no longer this huge burden, or obstacle. The goal was to boost the market share for Photoshop, the amount of copies that we sold. 
Well, the tool that I have a bias towards is the Camera Raw plug-in itself, because that's what I work on. 
I've used mudbox only a little bit, since I can't use it on my home computer or laptop (no nvidia). I haven't checked out the others, but I'll look into them.
Oh, well in that case I totally made this: http://i.imgur.com/yoMtK27.jpg  Ok, I didn't actually make that... but do you have any Photoshops that you've done yourself that you're particularly proud of?
Well, very early-on, when I first got a color printer that could print a photographic-quality image, I took a photograph of my kids and my neighbor's kids, who are good friends, and I swapped their heads back and forward. And I printed it out and gave it to them. They loved it. This was probably 1995 or so. It was a very early printer I had. 
It's certainly possible with existing tools to do reflections, so I'm not sure what a filter would do that would be different than that. 
I will check them out!
You didn't really answer his question so.....
Well, Adobe's goal for going to the subscription model was to increase the number of users by reducing the barrier to entry. So if someone is considering whether the Adobe Software suite is the right thing for them, they can simply try it for a year, without investing thousands of dollars. And I'm *very* happy for the pricing for the photography bundle in particular, where you can get Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Lightroom Mobile for less than $10 a month. 
I'm a graphic designer of 15 years and have been using photoshop since 1998 or so, thankyou for creating and developing such a versatile tool for us all to use (and visualise what is in our sometimes idiotic clients heads).  Could we possibly see any of your own photoshop work?
Are there any function out there you wish you could implement but couldn't due to budget or time constrain? Were there any idea got scrapped and why?      (Thank you so much for creating Photoshop, I don't think my life would be this wonderful/fulfilling/bat shit crazy if it wasn't for photoshop)
This has always been the question at VFX facilities who are Linux based, with one or two Windows machines in a corner somewhere for people who need to bang out something quick in Photoshop.
1.) I've been working, for the last 12 years, on the Camera Raw plug-in to Photoshop, and I'm an active engineer on that product.  2.) The feature - it's probably the version before this most recent one, because we don't really have as major a release model now with subscription - but finally getting Camera Raw as a filter into Photoshop.  3.) One of the first major uses people saw in their daily life was when they were making movies, they used to make these huge paintings, called Matte Paintings, that they would use as the background for scenes, putting behind actors. And fairly rapidly in the early 90s, that whole industry switched over to Photoshop to create Matte Paintings. 
Powerpoint has this feature... it's a huge time saver vs. creating a mask.  For those of us who might need to do it to 50 images it would be a game changer.  Reflections is just one examples, I think there is a lot of room for innovation in the filters... they've been relatively the same for a decade.  EDIT: I sound so negative and critical.  APOLOGIES, I do love Photoshop with all my heart. Long time user.
I predict that your photo will be on there shortly. 
[deleted]
I'll give you a website here: http://tknoll.com  This is my photography website, so... I'm an avid amateur photographer, and I travel to many places around the world and take photos. So this is my website that shows it off. 
Hello Thomas. What do you like for breakfast, lunch and diner? 
Well, generally the Photoshop team and even the Camera Raw team has a number of feature ideas that they have in the pipeline, that they want to do. Sometimes the features require a lot of effort to implement, and thus time, so we have to allocate engineering time to get them implemented and shipped. And sometimes we have to allocate time to try things, because they involve research and we have to try various things to see what works, if anything. So there are a number of features we have wanted to implement, but the technology hasn't been ready yet, so we've had to keep them on the back burner for a while - because we have a very high standard, something has to work well enough, before we ship it as a feature. 
It's become a word that means "photo manipulation," and people decry images that make celebrities look better than possible in reality, but it's also true that if you take a photograph of somebody, a lot of people want that kind of thing done to them too!
But in general, Photoshop is a tool, and any tool can be used properly for good, or abused for bad. 
Hehehe!  For breakfast, probably my favorite breakfast is something called a "Balance Bowl" from Cafe Vita in Pacific Palisades.  For lunch, nothing as regular as that. I have a variety of things for lunch.  For dinner, been trying recently to eat lots of vegetables. 
Well, I really can't complain about the success Photoshop has had, and the fact that it is still the number one application in its market, even after 25 years. I never dreamed that would be possible, because when I was writing Photoshop, the whole personal computer industry wasn't that old. So I don't know how much longer we can keep going, but I don't see any reason to see it ending any time soon. As to anything different - it would be wonderful if we could go back in time and ship the current version of Photoshop as 1.0! But I don't think the hardware of the time would run it very well. 
Ahh....yes, the [Morgan Freeman IAmA photo "debunk".](http://www.reddit.com/r/videos/comments/1c8a9i/morgan_freemans_reddit_ama_was_a_fraud_proof/)
Well, there was competitive software when Photoshop came out, and when people compared it, they felt that Photoshop had a better user interface, was more powerful, and also easier to use. 
I don't recall the specific time. It was definitely in the 1990s. Most of the time I go through life as a normal person, and don't think about Photoshop. And the 2 times in my daily life when it sort of hits me is one, walking into a random chain bookstore in the United State and seeing the Photoshop shelf, and the other time is when you're watching a movie or TV and you hear the word "Photoshop" as a verb. 
Apparently that is true. Adobe existed before we sold Photoshop to them, so I was not involved in the naming of Adobe. 
I can't wait. 
What do you think about open-source projects?   **PS:** Picture looks photoshopped, heh.
I believe you have to be a Creative Cloud member and you have to be an Education Customer in North America to use it. 
Excellent, thanks - I'll take a look! 
What music were you listening to while writing the Photoshop code?
I'm from Ann Arbor and I know that's where you are from.  What is your favorite thing to do in Ann Arbor and in Michigan?
The battle has begun: https://www.reddit.com/r/photoshopbattles/comments/2whhes/psbattle_thomas_knoll_the_cofounder_of_photoshop/
Wow, interesting! Especially around 4:00. Hopefully this will get answered.
This has the battles with the highest upvote counts:  https://www.reddit.com/r/photoshopbattles/top/
[Here](https://www.reddit.com/r/photoshopbattles/comments/2whh9r/psbattle_the_creator_of_photoshop/) I submitted it for you!  In case you'd like to check out some other interesting threads on photoshop, which I really encoruage you to do, [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/photoshopbattles/comments/2tzqlh/psbattle_drinking_poop_water/) is a thread that bill gates submitted of himself drinking poop water processed into clean drinking water, and the subsequent photoshops!  Every week a competition is held, too, which is a little bit different.  We'll see what people make in the thread!
Wow times have defiantly changed since then. Thanks for the reply
Ah yes, I know that pain.
What is your favorite Movie? 
$120 a year is incredibly cheap if you actually need the program for any professional or even just amateur use. If you are just using it to place dickbutt on things, yeah it might be a bit much. 
Been around for a while: https://helpx.adobe.com/photoshop/using/content-aware-scaling.html
What was your biggest hurdle when creating photoshop?
What is your favourite type of pie?
http://i.imgur.com/xriG9lX.jpg
&gt;If you are just using it to place dickbutt on things, yeah it might be a bit much.   Might as well be using some of the billion free opensource solutions then.
Amazing photographs, you're very talented.
What if you are professionally placing dickbutts on things? 
I guess I need to upgrade
So um, I've pirated Photoshop for most of my life. I went to art school and in order to do our homework we were almost expected to pirate Adobe CS. I've always felt guilty but justified it by the fact that I could never afford it anyway.  I guess my question is, how do you feel about the attitude toward Photoshop and the creative suite in general in education, where students are expected to pirate it to be able to do their homework?
[deleted]
Something I always wanted to share with the photoshop crew is how important I feel piracy is to your product.  That might seem really odd, but let me share an anecdote.  Back in the way way back, when photoshop was around 4.0 or 5.0 and was in the 7th grade.  My friend introduced me to Photoshop.  He of course pirated it because as if a junior high student was going to pay for that product.  I then pirated it and before it was all done, probably about a half a dozen of us ended up pirating the product.  Using it, learning, and more importantly, getting invested in it.  15~ years later, we all own licenses to Photoshop.  Those licenses were purchased on the back of almost a decade of piracy though.  If we didn't already know the software and weren't already invested in it as a product, there is no way we would have ever dropped even the 300 dollars we did on a student license, let alone the nearly 800 dollars on a consumer license.  If you think our parents were going to fork over $120/year for that software when we were in 7th grade, you'd be mistaken.  My point from this anecdote is that had Photoshop not been piratable when we were much younger, it would have never translated to a sale more than a decade later.  I know this kind of a story isn't unique either.  From my experience, expensive and complex software won't just sell because.  Whether that's Reason, or Photoshop, or Final Cut, or FLStudio.  These are the kinds of products that people grow up with through piracy, then become invested and by the time those kids who pirated it become adults, they are proficient enough to buy their own license and even more importantly, make software purchasing decisions for their careers, partners and companies.  I'd be willing to bet a non-trivial amount of sales of Photoshop come from these kinds of stories.  It's very indirect and it's definitely playing the long game, but if you can get teenagers invested in your product before it's actually time to make a purchasing decision either for a business or for personal use, I think that's extremely sustainable and profitable for a business.    The personal investment however has to start with the software creators.  You have to make that complex software available.  That silently takes to form of piracy, but I'd hope that by now, Adobe has realized that piracy of those kinds of products eventually turns into sales over the long term.  This is hugely at odds with the Adobe Cloud.  If you don't create an outlet for the next generation to become invested in your product, then you risk losing your place in the market.  It won't happen immediately, but as new young professionals take the place of the previous generation, their purchasing decisions and productivity decisions are going to be different because you can't pirate the cloud.  My experience would suggest that not selling and making available a real, boxed license to future versions of Photoshop is, quite frankly, a tremendous fuck up.
Then that is a $120 well spent imo
I might be too late for this- but is there any ambition to incorporate Network style collaboration in newer versions?
I'm sure we could whip up a PhD diploma for you in photoshop.
Shots fired.
Autodesk Maya, among others, is on Linux and people pay for that...
How did you feel before the subcription model made it affordable  to most poeple?
You're right! Sometimes the same people who gripe about photo retouching are the ones who demand it be done to theirs. Thanks for the reply! I make my living with Photoshop and it makes me a little sad to hear people throw it around as an insult.
There are plenty of open source programs that can handle basic solutions. Photoshop is a professional product intended for use by professionals. It's incredibly cheap to to end. Compare it to another niche program like auto-cad and you'll see just how cheap, as new editions of auto-cad can easily put you back over $6000.
What percentage of the photoshop features do you think you know and have a good handle on?
What's your stance on the whole "subscription-only" model Adobe has taken with Photoshop?  Personally I don't like it, I'd rather have a single copy that I know I can keep regardless of how many years it's been since I bought it. There's also the fact that, after so many years, it's more cost effective to use an old version of the program instead of paying $10 a month for years (I read that student licenses were $300. Basic math says that, after 2.5 years it's more cost effective to have just bought a student license).  If you were in charge of this whole "creative cloud" thing at Adobe, what would you do? Introduce an option like Microsoft did with 365 and Normal, Single-Copy Office to have the subscription plan that is always up-to-date, or a single copy that you buy once to use for years?
[deleted]
I'm under the impression that he has an answer to the exact question you asked but some combination of Adobe's NDA and PR stuff prevents him from answering such a thing.  It's probably not a good idea to disclose that you are rolling in money if you wish to be able to have said money in the future.
How do you feel about Photoshop's becoming a verb?
I am quite late for this, but maybe you could work a way that you can use a Linux version only by going premium or purchasing the software, and that would give you access to specific user support something like that my 0.10 cent &gt;.&lt;
[deleted]
How does creative cloud stop people from pirating? It just makes it cheaper when they are ready to buy
It is... after 70 months
CC is a pretty big step toward Adobe Products moving from stand-alone products to SaaS products.  SaaS as an option is fine.  SaaS as the one and only way to get the product is a dick move, but the merits of SaaS are for a different conversation.  What's important is that CC is a step away from a box, and a step toward a piece of software that no longer exists on your computer.  It's still a discrete piece of software and you can still effortlessly find CC downloads and cracks, but it's getting closer to this product that is more inaccessible.  I'd imagine if Adobe could wing it realistically, it'd turn it into a piece of software that *must* at least check in with Adobe before working.  I'm guessing that such a system will be the ultimate fate of the product.  Adobe will host their own product, on their own systems, and your computer will effectively be a thin client.  Adobe will say, 'Look at how convenient we made this for you!', which is hilarious bullshit, but I digress.  In the meantime, CC does have a soft requirement to check into the Adobe systems, but that's relatively effortless to get around.  That, however, is simply a first step.  Understand that my complaint isn't, 'Adobe products are now completely inaccessible for new users', it's 'Adobe products are getting increasingly inaccessible for new users'.
For industry standard software it could certainly be worse. 
Hey there, I'm a student (high school) trying to get into digital art. I really love Photoshop for all it's worth, but I can't afford it. Between the extracurricular I do and my age, nobody is willing to hire me to do some menial task for hours on end. Is there a way that I would be able to get Photoshop in a more affordable way? Ten dollars a month is more that I can afford because my family is having financial difficulties.
paint.net is my go to Windows program, it's freeware but not open source.
I doubt you'll read this, but this is what finally got me to stop pirating your software.  Now *please* make a Linux native build already.
But once you stop paying, the software is no longer yours. It's crap
We dont talk about the GIMP
&lt;crickets&gt;
The GIMP's asleep. 
If you take classes, try to see if the prof is on ratemyprofessor. I went to school for photography, and learned very little about photoshop, it was very disappointing. I learned 1000x more, in a much shorter period of time, through my work.
TL:DR  Linux users are not only willing to pay for premium software, we are willing to **pay more** for it. If Linux compatibility is too hard technically with the scattered structure, then how about a WINE version? I don't care if it is native. I just want it without having to jump through all these hoops.  &gt; the issue here is that most people who use Linux are not actually used to paying for software.   That is complete garbage. If you complained about the technical difficulties then I'd probably say "sure that could make sense" but to claim we don't pay for things is garbage and in fact is kind of offensive.  Linux users not only are willing to pay for premium software, WE PAY MORE! We actually want to prove to companies that we are willing to pay for stuff that we do it more often and even pay more than we need to.  Humble Bundle is a great example of this, https://www.humblebundle.com/, Linux is ALWAYS at the top of people paying the most on average.  Look at the current bundle for Square Enix Bundle 2, Linux users are paying the highest at $8.27 per purchase . . . Linux users are paying the most for games that DON'T EVEN RUN ON LINUX! That is how much we actually care and want to pay for stuff. We are even willing to pay for stuff we can't even use.  You can also look at Valve's Steam platform. They have hundreds of thousands of new customers because they brought their system to Linux because there are many people who wanted to play games but weren't willing to use Windows to do it. I was one of those and now I can play lots of games thanks to Valve. Valve realized the benefits of Linux were so high and the users of Linux were so interested that they are developing their console-like SteamOS software based on Linux.  -----------------  We donate to software projects that don't even ask us to. Ubuntu has donations of at least $20,000 per quarter, just from people saying "thanks for making this for us." They aren't even selling a product, they are giving it away and we as a community appreciate it and happily financially contribute to it.  It isn't just Ubuntu either: Linux Mint, Fedora, openSUSE, Debian and a LOT more get people donating money because they appreciate the effort done for the users. People are paying money for something that they aren't even asked to pay for. That is how much we actually care.  -----------  I am a Linux user for 99.9999% but I have a Windows Virtual Machine that I use EXCLUSIVELY for running Photoshop. This is actually very common with Linux users. We are ALREADY Adobe Customers but we have to jump through hoops in order to be customers. You and your company probably have NO IDEA that you probably have thousands of customers that are already primarily Linux users. There are probably a lot more people on Linux that aren't willing to jump through the hoops and if they didn't have to they would be customers as well. There are also likely people on Windows who would switch to Linux if Adobe products were available to them on it.  ----------------  Here is my suggestion:  1. Announce that Adobe is considering building a Linux version. 2. say that Adobe is wanting to know just how many customers are currently running Linux. 3. Ask them how they are getting around the stupid platform restriction: is it Virtual Machine, Dual-Booting or something else? 4. Ask how many Non-Linux users would switch to Linux if they could continue using Photoshop. 4. Ask them how many people are willing to Pre-Order a Linux Version. (this is actually paying for a promise, not a product)  I bet it will freaking blow your mind just how many customers are already Linux users and just how many people are willing to pay for the "promise of Photoshop". I am one of them, yes just for the promise.  -----------  You know what, screw it. I don't care if Adobe makes a Linux version of Photoshop or anything else. I am just fine with making the Windows version of Adobe products work through WINE. TeamViewer does that actually and it works great. I would be thrilled if I could run the Windows version reliably through WINE, I don't care if it is native or not really.
humble bundles show that linux users end up paying more on average for games and software. this argument doesnt seem entirely sound to me. I use almost 100% free software on windows as well as linux but photoshop has never been free, I dont see why that should be held as an argument against linux. 
Over those 5.8 years they will update your software and instantly add brand new features that they develop. My CC subscription gives me several updates a year.
You should tell Oracle and Redhat that,  one of the last companies I contracted for paid them collectively well over 1million a year. VMWare also received crazy sums from us as did Dell. Splunk also got a small fortune.  All our inhouse devs, running IntelliJ on Linux? Yeah, that was paid for and those yearly licenses arent cheap either.  The Photoshop guys? Well, we're not going to run Windows so they got Macs for their work but we would have preferred to pay for a Linux version to keep our platforms standard. The Apple overhead probably increased the over all cost of your product 3-4 fold  Companys that run Linux on the desktop pay all kinds of companies for all kinds of products, hell, Linux home users buy games on Steam for Linux.  Whether the market is big enough to warrant the port, I can't say. But your closing statement is flat out wrong.
$10 month is very reasonable, even for a kid in high school. How much do people spend on video games? How much do they spend on Xbox Live? PSN? Movies? Netflix? Steam sales? Your cell plan? Any high school kid can go out and work part time so that he could pay that $10 each month...even if they don't have a real job. Shovel some snow, cut some lawns, babysit. Enough of these 'oh poor me' excuses. 
http://resources.infosecinstitute.com/error-level-analysis-detect-image-manipulation/
Many software packages are priced like this, especially in the enterprise world. Keep in mind for a professional photog or designer, $10 a month is just about the cheapest expense you'll have for such a key piece of equipment.
Would be great if they do it the Unreal Engine way, in which you can still use the program but no longer receive updates or supports after stopped paying for subscription. 
I'd like to add that Adobe offers a student program, where you can buy a years licence for ~25$. you get a licence on the full master suite. So there is a solution to the pirating problem you describe. However when you're no longer a student and are used to some of the master suite products ( photoshop, premiere and audition for me) you have to buy the full product at $60 a month. This is an increase of 2800%. that is far to expesive for a hobby, for the ocasional youtube vid i put out. So it sent me to pirating. 
And as a matte painting student. Thank you for that!
I love that he skipped this one
That would be awesome!
This was the only meaningful thing in this entire AMA. I'm disappointed in photoshop guy for not fulfilling your request. 
you are awesome, and knoll is a douchenozzle for not fulfilling your request
The problem is when you want more than just Photoshop (as Adobe products obviously work well with each other). Then it gets insanely expensive.
I was disappointed with the Android version. Was greatly looking forward to it and it is by far the most expensive app I've ever gotten and I find that the functionality of it just isn't there. 
Do you realize how much this pissed-off many people who DO NOT pirate Photoshop?  Or is your marketing department that much deaf and dumb???
I have PS and being a very curious person, how in the world does PS work? I don't expect any secrets revealed but I am simply amazed at how everything works. It boggles my mind. For instance, when I save an image and paste another image over it and erase the parts I don't want. How does that work?
Is some of the original code still in there, or has most of the original Photoshop been rewritten by now?
Since you can use most Adobe software pretty much for years without needing updates, I don't think that would be profitable at all. Many of the (comparatively) few people who currently pay for it would probably just pay 10$ and then cancel. I also believe many software pirates would never consider paying for certain things, any price would be too high for them.
Oh, but they should be. If I hear Adobe, I think of Flash and Acrobat Reader, which are less than stellar products. I think Photoshop has a much better reputation.
how reliably can you run it through wine now?
Why?
I hate not owning software. I am a cloud subscriber, but dislike it intensely. A soon as I find an alternative I will be off. 
I didnt even know this existed
I have it but don't know how to use it. 
[deleted]
Hey I don't mean to be rude ;) but you should really use less smileys ;). They all make it look like you're bullshitting him ;) while it's actually proper advice ;)
I know some people who first started using Photoshop in art school, but the really brilliant people I know all pirated it as teenagers. Same thing with 3DS Max users. 
It only really works because unreal takes a 5% cut from the very profitable user projects and because they actually add useful stuff and fix their problems with each update (unlike photoshop, where you get a new kind of blur and yet still have to deal with 7 version old issues) 
Was it Photoshop 4 that had the code name "Big Electric Cat"? 
Hi Thomas. Are there any features or interface ideas that are still in Photoshop twenty years later, that you feel you came up with? Did you or your brother originate any basic concepts at the beginning, that have remained?   Was your design was before layers were developed? I seem to remember that the clone stamp was in the earliest versions. And frankly, despite all the new healing and content aware developments, it's still one of the main tools used. 
If someone were to ask me for an example of a hidden gem in reddit comment sections, I'd link them to this comment thread. 
Then I will pay for your subscription.  You're doing god's work.....professionally.
Instead of working on MY coursework, I drank and played volleyball.  And became great at both.  Sadly, neither turned into a multinational corporation.
[deleted]
Not really since paper and ink were designed to create something original.  Photoshop is different in the sense you can combine elements from lots of sources to create whatever you like, even non original work.  Tl:Dr The risk is greater than using pen and paper
Shots fired
[deleted]
Adobe is the only product keeping me on Windows. I think that if you guys would move the majority of the products move to Linux there will be a huge OS switch to Linux. Especially in the broadcasting industry.
If only there was some tool to make this happen!
Seriously..I spend probably 100 bucks a month on coffee...I can, however, see how a 10 year old trying to convince his parents to spend 120 bucks a year on something they see as useless would be tough.    That said...if my kid asked for a CC sub I'd get him one. 
Hey Thomas I took digital design in highschool so you might say im overqualified can I have some sort of job with you ? 
[deleted]
Fuck you for making photoshop a subscription based service?
Now that we've all seen what Adobe did to it, would you sell it to them again if you could go back in time?
Even [Microsoft has admitted](http://www.informationweek.com/if-youre-going-to-steal-software-steal-from-us-microsoft-exec/d/d-id/1052865?cid=rssfeed_iwk_all) that they'd rather people pirate their software than use a competitor's.
Creative Cloud seems like a good deal for hardcore Photoshop users, and a crap deal for everyone else, especially people who only use/used Lightroom. Is there any chance Adobe will offer Lightroom as a standalone product I don't have to subscribe to in the future?
I think they attempt to address this issue by allowing you to download and evaluate any of their products for 30 days. However, one could argue that 30 days is just not long enough for a beginner to really learn to use the product to get to a point where they would actually purchase it in the future.
If that's all you got out of that post then I suggest you reread it.
My mother is a professional photographer that lives on the edge of the wilderness in Alaska.  The only "high speed Internet" she has access to is 700k and that's only when she's at home.  She spends weeks on the road without Internet connection at all.  Up there there's huge swaths of land where you can't even get a cell phone signal, let alone internet.  If Photoshop keeps going the way they're going, and requires always-on Internet connections, they're going to lose a customer that's been paying hundreds of dollars a year for the last 20, not because she doesn't like their product, but because they want to stick it to pirates that aren't gonna pay for the shit anyway.  Not being able to use the software unless she's connected is a deal-breaker for her.  She comes back with literally *thousands* of images after a shooting trip.  If she can't work on them while she's in the field there's no way she's going to be able to keep up with the demands of her business.  Adobe needs to realize that many of the photographers that use their products are going to be moving to alternatives if they continue this trend.
[deleted]
Why did you change the way some tools work in Lightroom like brushes and cloning? Now all of my instincts are wrong and I have to pull the image into Photoshop anyway because of the frustration with the tools.
Nice theory! Unfortunately real life is much less thought out!
You could record an "Action" and replay it 50 times. In fact just found [this](http://www.panosfx.com/free-photoshop-actions/reflections), might be what you want.
I guess I'm very late with this, but in regards to Camera Raw and general RAW editing, do you think we'll ever see a node-based development module in ACR/PS/LR? I think what's possible in node-based video color grading is pretty damn awesome, something like this for photos would be pretty powerful. Custom order of processing steps, effects and parametrization based on masks generated at random points in the nodegraph, etc.
Of course they will know about the features, they publish the fucking thing, m8.
Silly Catface, laptops already connects to the internet. :D
Then you should invest in dickbuttshop instead.
[deleted]
That's a rather silly question
Auto-cad and 3ds Max and Maya are all free for me due to the student licenses and thanks fuck for that, I love auto desk
Nah man ;) He's just smug like that ;) 
Autodesk give their programming out free with educational licenses for those in education.
If you need photoshop 12 months of the year then it shouldn't be expensive because the usage should justify the cost.  If you don't need photoshop 12 months of the year then it doesn't cost $120.  Thats what I'm doing. I basically rent photoshop for $10 on a per month basis to handle my travel photos. In effect it costs me maybe $30 max a year to have the latest version of the software when i need it and not have to deal with the hassle of pirating it.
Thanks. Yes, def. a possibility but we are working with images of all shapes and sizes.  Reflection was just an examples... the point was really that they haven't touched this area of the software in a decade and there is a lot of opportunity.  Even the drop shadow... add the ability to create a perspective shadow or a shadow just below with some fine controls.  Same drop shadow for 15 years.
Thank you for your answer.
I've purchased many software products, windows, 50 steam games, tons of bluray movies, etc...  But to be honest with you I'm never going to spend $1000 on a single program, or $120 a year for the pleasure of never owning it.  Your high prices are preventing you from obtaining new customers.  There are tons of free image tools out there, hell paint shop pro ultimate is only $80  Tl:dr PSP is only $80, less than 10% of the cost of Photoshit.
Replace Photoshop with any expensive tool and you have my position.  I pirated the hell out of Matlab in college so I could learn everything about it.  My company paid ~$40k/year to Mathworks so I could make them lots of money with Matlab.
What easter eggs did you put in your version of Photoshop?  How many of them survive today?
WOW, it's been 25 years already? I remember playing with photoshop in 1993-94 right after starting at MS and just being in awe. I have nothing to ask really just wanted to say, great product and remember wow 25 years.
This is disappointing. They do a really good job in Photoshop Battles, then the guy who made Photoshop shows up and they look like they're done with Windows Paint. I like the Foto Booth picture though, that's closer to what it's all about. 
And then you would die
Lol will you write me a letter of reference? 
[deleted]
You forgot the part about David Biedny.
So pay $10 for a single month and suddenly get Photoshop?
That's about an hour of work for high-end retouching rates.
10$ is better than the hoards of people who pirate it and pay $0.  Once they have those people in their eco system all they have to do is release one epic patch/feature and people will resub again.
The sincerity...
Is it 9.99 in the UK? We often get fucked over like that... $9.99 = 6.50.  EDIT - Several words  EDIT2: - I went to check, [it is 8.57 which means we effectively pay $13.16](https://creative.adobe.com/plans?store_code=uk). Why is that?
The problem with that model is that people would sign up for one month, pay $10, and use that version for years. The vast majority of photoshop users don't care about the newest features, and if there's something you do care about, pay another $10 to update it.
It's not polite to publicly bash your competitors. If you could even call GIMP a competitor.
Why does you price have to be so high? I mean, really, I could buy a shitty used Toyota for the price of a photoshop license. This is one of the reasons why people torrent.
This is interesting to learn re camera raw. I always wonder about Sigma and why their formats seem to lag so long for camera raw inclusion. As an avid amateur photographer you must have seen the beautiful images Sigma foveon sensors can produce. 
Wow, it's quite cute ! :)
After over a decade of using (pirated) Photoshop cause I could simply not afford buying it. Now that I'm 25 and have a solid income I tried finding the software to buy. This resulted in me finding Photoshop CC and I decided, no, this is something I need longterm and it should be an investment, not a monthly fee. So instead of ending up buying the software I have unfortunately decided to keep the pirated version for now...
Why would he need to bash it? Gimp is a very solid program, even if it's lightweight compared to PS.
Off topic, but what area is she at, interior or the peninsula or southeast?  What's her website?  There's a lot of amazing artists up here, I'd love to see her work. :)
[deleted]
I believe that Creative Cloud checks in to confirm subscription status once a month or so. I've certainly taken my laptop out in the middle of nowhere and had no problem using CC.
I'm a 19 year old college student with no income. Ofcourse I pirated it more than a couple of times since i started using it at 10. And no, my parents would not have bought it for me, because I also needed food, so they said. And I'll keep pirating it until I can actually afford it.  You can't generalize and say that a person is very cheap if he cannot afford it at all, and I've met around 50-100 people irl in the same boat as me. Most of us will buy licenses in the future, some already have. Don't make such a big deal out of piracy, not everyone has 10$ a month (or an available credit card) at immidiate disposal.  Thanks for the greatest piece of software ever, and sorry for pirating, but as soon as I can, I'm paying for it.
The entire suite is $59/year iirc for personal use. If you have a need for their entire suite of content, I'd have to assume you're using it as part of a hobby/lifestyle that costs a lot more than that to maintain. 
It's not insanely expensive. It's like $50 bucks a month for access to all of their programs. I'd bet that's less than most people pay for their cell phone or cable bill. Also, it's nice because you get immediate access to all of those programs without a significant charge up front like in the old days where you had to pay like $1200 just for the video suite.
[deleted]
Wait, you can texture paint mud box style?
That's the beauty of it, it doesn't.
[deleted]
They're called winkys. And I imagine him looking like the Dos Equis guy as he's saying it.
If you're on Mac and don't want to pay 240 a year for PS and illustrator then might I suggest buying Sketch and Pixelmator. They're both incredible products for vector and raster editing and you can get a life time license for $160 for both in total.   Links because I can't figure out how to link on alien blue: http://bohemiancoding.com/sketch/ http://www.pixelmator.com/  
How many uggo's in photographs have been made to appear fuckable because of you?  Gimme a ballpark.
[deleted]
I love my GIMP. Photoshop has advantages but I've used GIMP for so long that it's just more comfortable.  Often I do most of my cloning and blemish removal in GIMP because it mush faster, then close it and open it again in Photoshop for tones.
How much money have you made from photoshop?
I don't think you've read my comment (properly). I'm saying many pirates won't pay regardless of the price and they potentially miss out on a lot of customers already paying full price who might just switch to this cheaper option. Just hoping for users to become paying customers again by releasing a big feature is way too much of a financial risk for Adobe.
Do you know that India the top political party BJP won an election because of Photoshop? 
You can do that already. You can get *just* Lightroom and/or Photoshop without getting everything else. 
Do you perhaps have a smaller version of this photo to make it even harder to read?
Why is photoshop so goddamn expensive?
How do you feel about photoshop being used in advertising to falsify the image of things? 
This is a very interesting business model that's been used before-- final cut pro, in fact. For a long time the license fee on that product was *huge,* but it was very, very easily piratable. Many (myself included) speculated that Apple *wanted* people to pirate it, so it would become ingrained in the workforce of students. Meanwhile, the professionals at the higher end had no problem paying for the huge license fees.  And for a while, it really seemed like it was working.  Then they went all FCP X on us and changed their whole business model to focus on your typical consumer, not the professionals. They also dropped the license fee way, way down. What happened? Did the software get cheaper?  Nah. They just want your average consumer to pay for it now, not the professionals.  The same thing is happening with photoshop as they target a different market.  Little 12-year-old you may not purchase photoshop, but many more people in their 20's will. And that's their new demographic.  Maybe you think making piracy less attractive will kill their product, but I don't. It really is incredibly cheap, even in middle school I bet a lot of kids' parents will spring for $10/mo. Remember, kids today have *our* generation-- the one that grew up knowing how important computers were-- for parents. But our generation grew up with parents who thought computers were a silly waste of time.  But even still, even if they don't pirate it, I think photoshop has a very long life ahead of it by grabbing people in their teens and 20's.
[deleted]
You're welcome.
Hold Ctrl on your keyboard and scroll down with the mouse wheel.
$20 a month for the whole suite if you are eligible for educational pricing.  I have it myself.  [educational pricing](https://www.adobe.com/creativecloud/buy/students.html?sdid=KKTIL&amp;skwcid=AL!3085!3!55494114622!e!!g!!adobe%2520creative%2520suite%2520student&amp;ef_id=U4SvvgAABcBzu7Yv:20150220175459:s)
[deleted]
I'm taking a Desktop Publishing course this semester and we work exclusively in Adobe InDesign. We do have access to computers that have InDesign installed, but they are only open from 8am-5pm. I decided to go ahead and look into purchasing InDesign even though I currently only see myself using it for this semester. The student pricing for me would have been $20 a month if I subscribed for a year. If I went that route and ended up cancelling my subscription once the semester ends, I would still have to pay half of the remaining balance.   I ended up going the trial route and I guess I'll just have to suck it up when the trial runs out and make time to go to the computer lab, but as a student, a monthly subscription at even half that price adds up quickly.
You're welcome.
Aint no body got time for that^^itworkedthanks
I used to be a graphic design major and I always just assumed that once I graduated and no longer had access to all of the programs in school computer labs that I would purchase the program, even at the ridiculous, non-subscription price. Then the stupid subscription service came out.
What version? Had 2.6 on my old computer, installed 2.8 on my new computer when I set it up recently, pretty quickly uninstalled 2.8 and installed 2.6 on my new computer instead.  (I can put up with Ctrl-Shift-E being mapped away from zoom-to-fit, and I can even mostly put up with their new "save will only save as xcf, everything else you must export, even if you opened it as that format" junk, but when I open, say, a PNG, do some stuff, "export" it or whatever because it won't let me "save" it, and then when I close it immediately after only to get a dialogue complaining that I'm closing an unsaved file? That gets old *really* quick. If they're going to do that only-save-as-xcf-export-anything-else junk, there should at least be an option to count exporting as saving for the purposes of that dialogue box.)
[deleted]
Language evolves.  Retouched is, itself a newer word for the practice of editing an original image.
Of course it's expensive. It's 45.73 a month for something I can never own. What happens if I lose my job or something and can no longer pay this? I've got no access even if I've paid 45.73 for a year. What's the trade off for this? Having access to the current version? I happily use CS3 for my job, and I've never found it missing any feature I need. At least I own CS3.
She lives in the interior, [Susan Stevenson Photography](http://www.susanstevenson.com/).  She does mostly wildlife photography and landscape/aurora photography.
This is the truest statement ever.
Where do you live?
Good answer, but you missed the opportunity to answer the same thing several times repeatedly there.
When I was a little kid my dad managed a camera store in Pittsfield MA called The Photo Shop. 
Are you related to that other important figure in the history of photgraphy, Grassy Knoll?
I feel the same about call of duty. 
Yep! By the sculpt layers tab there's a paint layers, and by the sculpt tools, there's a paint tools. You can switch between painting on the model and on the UVs, but if you sculpted it entirely in mudbox, the UVs will be shit. It's an automatic layout, so all the polys are separated and flattened.
Superman doesn't own any airplanes. Batman does.
I see piracy (in some cases) not as a way to get free product, but as a way to make sure you can use the product you actually paid for. Basically, if I can't run a copy of a program without DRM getting in the way, I don't want that product. If I have to depend on the fickle actions of somebody elses server or "security key" dongle, then I'm leaving myself open to not being able to run the software that I bought.  I got this attitude after buying CAD software once, which relied on a dongle being plugged into the serial port. When I questioned the supplier of the software about what happens when that dongle fails, they said that if it ever failed, just send it in &amp; they'd replace it for free. Of course, when it failed a couple of years later, the response was "we don't support that version anymore, but send it in, and if we happen to still have one in the warehouse, we'll sent it to you for $250". I tore open the dongle &amp; fixed it myself. Later I found out that because of the "security" feature, the program wouldn't run on a faster computer.  When the company contacted me about purchasing their "latest, greatest" version of their software, I told them to kiss my ass.        I won't even consider getting a blu-ray player, due to the hassle it's DRM causes legit users.  And don't even get me started on stuff that wants to update constantly.      So if your software relies on talking to your server for me to use it, I won't even consider it unless I can purchase it, but actually use a cracked version.  
so does Mathworks with MATLAB
I realize this is a hotly debated topic and people generally like it or hate it. This usually seems to be based on the ownership issue, which I personally don't find bothersome. There are many subscription services I pay for whose content I will never own.  Back to my original example of a cable bill. In America I would not be surprised at all if the average cable bill was over $75. You'll never own that content either. It's a fee you pay for access to content.  When I started as a freelancer, if you wanted legitimate copies of these programs you had to shell out easily over a thousand dollars just to get started. Some of the earlier CS videos suites were were $1200. That got you no web software, limited design software (no illustrator, InDesign, etc.) Now for $75 a month you can have access to legit copies of everything on three machines.  I like the more affordable entry fee here personally, but this isn't to say it doesn't present legitimate problems for some people. I realize it's not a great deal for everyone who uses the software for a variety of reasons, but I get the sense a lot of people are butthurt because you can't pirate the software in the way you could before, and I don't have much sympathy for that line of thinking.  If you're only a photoshop user you can get that and lightroom for $9.99/month. If you had bought the extended version of Photoshop CS3 when it was released in April 2007 it would have cost $999. If you had the option to subscribed to it instead for $9.99 a month you still wouldn't have paid that much over the last 8 years and they've upgraded it substantially.  
That's how it is *now*.  What happens in 3-4 versions when they decide to make connection to their servers a requirement to use their product in order to "better thwart piracy"?  It's not outside of the realm of possibility for such things to occur.  There is a lot of software out there now that requires a constant connection to validation servers in order to function.  The more Adobe shifts to "the cloud", the more likely that is to occur.  So much effort is spent trying to stop people from pirating the product that they ignore why people are pirating it in the first place.  Put in an "always on" requirement and people will just create cracks that emulate those servers.  It won't actually stop piracy at all, but it sure as hell will annoy the crap out of legitimate users, such as my mother.    That's the big joke in all this anti-piracy crap, it does nothing to actually stop it at all, and everything to drive legitimate customers *towards* piracy.  If Adobe switches to this type of system, my mother is either going to have to learn to use an entirely new image editing suite (doubtful, she went to school for Photoshop and has been using it since like version 2 or 3) **or** she's going to ask me to find her a way to defeat that check so that she doesn't have to worry about her Photoshop locking her out 3 days into a two-week trip in the bush.  Guess which option we're likely going to go with?  And she *paid for the software*, let's not forget that.  I'm going to end up having to crack software she bought legitimately.  That's **ridiculous**.
How would you respond to those who would call Photoshop too bloated with unecessary features?
why would amateur user pay 120$ if he can get it for free? 
I think a lot of people would feel much more comfortable with it if they knew about the single window option (which isn't even that hard to find, it's under a single menu).
[Yes](http://i.imgur.com/vcawwxI.png?1)
Old versions can run fine all done by the Linux community. CS2 for example works pretty much perfectly. CS6 actually surprisingly good support but is not reliable. Here is a run down of the support stats, https://appdb.winehq.org/appview.php?appId=17
Why? What was your motivation to create this amazing tool?
Well that was an interesting post, thanks
That's funny.   A lot of younger 'shoppers don't even know what 1-hour photo shops were!
I was.... "given"...... a copy of Photoshop when I was 11 and by time I was 20 I had mastered the tools and managed to land one hell of an early (and successful) career because of this... gift.
Your brothers name is Victoria? 
[deleted]
Probably tax.
I'm a "young 'shopper". What are those?
Indian Rupees 9.9 per month would be so awesome
Hey Thomas.  Does it make you angry when you see your product being used on celebrities and models to give this generation of children a false idea of beauty?
In the days before digital photography a 1-hour photo lab was a neat thing because they would develop your negatives and expose your pictures and have it all finished within an hour.  Before that it took at least a half day for the process to be completed.  I got to work in a darkroom for a photography class and it took us a full day of letting the chemicals do their stuff just to get the negatives exposed.
Woah that's so cool! I have faint memories of photo labs from when I was a little kid but other than that I was clueless. Thanks for clearing it up!
Np!
Hey, I'm taking an engineering course right now and I REALLY want to shift my college program into Visual Communication where I can enjoy my editing skills and use them effectively. (yeah, from bachelor of science to bachelor of fine arts) The problem is that I haven't convinced my parents yet. I know this isn't the best place to ask but... How can I convince them?
Exactly how I feel about it. Bravo for explaining the advantages of GIMP compared to Photoshop, though few.
hahaha, laughed.  but CAF does work in certain situations and it's a bit of an art with regards to where you select and how close it comes to other objects.  and sometimes it takes a second pass.  but it has definitely saved me time over clone stamping a countless number of times.
How do you feel about people's flaws being photoshopped in things like magazines?
good sample
Really nice to look at. Thanks.
CS:GO texture makers disagree. Other than that, not many. :) 
So you know how to work your way around women huh ;)
[deleted]
You cant pirate it? Of course you can. The difference is that ill always have my CS3 license. If you pay for CC for 8 years and then stop paying.. Guess what, you have nothing to show for it. Adobes model is terrible. Other subscription based services at least let you use the version you're currently using if you stop the subscription.
&gt; If you pay for CC for 8 years and then stop paying. Guess what, you have nothing to show for it.  Clearly we see things differently. I don't agree with this statement. At the end of eight years if I stop paying, I'll have all the money I made from using the software in that time period to show for it. Software that's constantly been updated over those eight years, that's given me new features and capabilities, enabling me to achieve more and put out better work for my clients.  If I'd bought CS3 instead all I'd have is an eight year old piece of software that I would have desperately wanted to upgrade 5 years prior. Just because it's "mine" wouldn't give me any comfort when I can't achieve what I want to or can't open a file I need to. 
