What is the first question you guys wanted to answer when redesigning the email experience?
I love gmail! What do you guys like about this new Inbox?  Also can i get an invite? thanks!
[deleted]
Will Inbox support other mail systems (like Hotmail, Yahoo etc) apart from Gmail?
Do you guys are planning to allow another email services work in Inbox ?
Why didn't you guys integrate Inbox functionality with Gmail itself? 
[deleted]
How much hate from advertisers did you get for splitting up the Promotions inbox? It seems like every email I get in there days "Gmail users! Pretty Please drag this into your Primary inbox"  In closing.... thank you!
What is so good about your service that I should get rid of my current e-mail (Outlook) for it?
Do you think Inbox will replace Gmail on the long road?
Hi guys, since I'm not familiar with Inbox, what would be the simplest way to explain it to me &amp; is it better than gmail, or just different? :)
Hey guys. What feature did you really wish was implemented but didn't make the cut? And why?
Why should I ditch my mindspring account?
&gt; PS: Can you get an invite? Yes! From 10am-12 noon PST today anyone who requests an invite by emailing inbox@google.com using an @gmail.com email address will get one by the end of the day. &gt;   :)
Will you tell us the benefits of having an Inbox account versus our regular Gmail accounts? I don't know anything about this project and would like to learn more!
Will you ever offer the ability to apply more than one label per email? That is what is holding me back from using it. You also can't easily tell if a label is even assigned to an email.
Do you guys get to watch movies at work? Like, break room, maybe an actual mini theater? What was the last movie you each watched?
Are there any plans to add a "delete" button?
Yup, I am dumb and read that wrong! :[
Will there be an iPad app?
When will we be able to use Inbox with Google Apps?
I use Gmail regularly, I have hundreds of filters and label every Email. I'm an efficient and organized user. Why should I switch to Inbox?
Which is your preferred method of transport, pogo stick or space hopper?
Will Inbox eventually replace Gmail ? Is this just a soft opening ?
Any chance for a "unified inbox" for multiple addresses in a single view?
Oh, this is a good one!
Why would you alienate your business users by not having Rich Text Signatures as a day 1 feature?
[deleted]
What is the plan for adding integration for Google Calendar into inbox?  Any plans to add email signatures to inbox?
Why can't we download all attachments? That's annoying
[deleted]
Why do I need another inbox? What makes this email so wonderful and why will I hate it?
 Do you see Inbox sitting side by side separately from Gmail or will features cross over? I love the grouping and ease of managing my mail in Inbox 
How many users are currently in the beta? How are you tracking adoption rates for the current beta? What percentage of people are taking on Inbox fully? What factors attribute to that?
Will there be support added for email accounts other than gmail such as exchange and outlook.com?
In the next app version, for Notifications. Could you add Delete and/or Read to the buttons?
Color me ignorant but can someone explain exactly what this is?
[deleted]
I remember reading somewhere that they tried to, but other Googlers who relied on Gmail didn't like it, so they made it it's own thing.
Will Google be bringing the material design look of Inbox to Gmail (on the web) in the near future?  Also, will you give us the option to swipe to delete instead of swiping to mark as done? I don't like saving all my emails in an archive, I prefer to delete them.
[deleted]
Hello!  When are you opening Inbox to other Browsers? I'm a Firefox user at work and I can't use Inbox due it it being restricted. 
[deleted]
Do you see Inbox becoming the Default Gmail experience? Will the "old" (current) experience disappear entirely someday?
Is there any plans to bring horizontal ViewPager like navigation between emails like GMail does to Inbox Android app?   It is so annoying to have to go back and forth waiting for animations just to see adjacent emails.
Will you add an ability to "mark as unread"? Biggest impediment to me using the program. Even though it's designed to do away with the need, I still NEED it.
Will you add the possibility to switch (so you should add them) theme from the app? For ex.dark theme or light theme (Like the default one)
Thanks for doing this AMA!  I just wanted to understand how Google's app development team works. [Here's an article from Android Police](http://www.androidpolice.com/2014/10/30/google-turns-design-inconsistency-ten-latest-round-navigation-drawers/) about the inconsistencies regarding how the nav drawer and the hamburger menu should behave when pulled out. Is there nobody at Google looking over these apps? Do the dev teams get different memo's regarding the same Material Design guidelines?  
[deleted]
Will Inbox have Google Drive integration some day, like Gmail already has?
Is Inbox going to replace GMail completely? If not what would the purpose of having two email apps?
Hi guys, love your work - I'm a (pretty new) Android Dev who works for a tech startup and we're all using Inbox here. I also read your blog post about how the team wrote the majority of the code in Java and converted it to Obj-C and Javascript and found it fascinating, especially as the tools you used could save the company tremendous amounts of time potentially.  Anyway, my question is when are you planning on opening up Inbox to businesses using Google Apps? We're all waiting patiently for it!
Are you expecting that all Gmail users eventually migrate to Inbox? 
Question to Jason :) When looking at individual mail in Inbox you get an unholy mess of sweep and menu icons in the top right corner, including extra bonus menu of "Reply, Forward, Print" for the email itself. What was the reason to hide everything behind menu button even though there's plenty of space in desktop version to actually show actions immediately?
When did the Gmail team first start working on Inbox?
You shouldn't. I feel like this app works best for parole with unorganized cluttered emails
Hi guys,  I've been able to have a god with Inbox and I've liked it so far, but my old gmail account is not my main email account (it's a Google Apps account) Will you be opening up Inbox for Google Apps any time soon?
Is it preferable to face 100 duck-sized horses or 1 horse-sized duck?
Why is archiving (done) the default feature instead of delete? My typical flow with gmail was to only keep important emails and delete everything else.
what about making a toggle in gmail called "gmail enhanced" or something that could switch between inbox or legacy. Then everyone will be happy  I don't use inbox right now just because I hate having multiple mail apps 
Is there any plans to add another action like "Mark as read and Done"?  It is a bit frustrating to mark something as Done on Inbox just to then open GMail and see it again in Unread
Love the app!  Any plans on adding more options like delete priority?   Asking because I like to archive/done as well as delete forever. 
It's basically Gmail with a different workflow for emails. http://www.google.com/inbox/
When I scroll to the bottom of a long chain/thread I often accidentally scroll too far and that last drag pulls me out of the thread and back into my inbox.   So I guess my question is... Can you change that feature?
Seriously. This. The one usability factor that's driving me nuts. I don't want to save every random promotion/update email I get because it messes with searching at a later date. Just give me the trash symbol up top. I also want custom buttons enabled in the expanded notification so that for some types of messages I have archive and some I have delete or ability to set a reminder.
Hey again. Is the current design of Inbox the original design? If not, how did it look before materializing? Was there an overhaul because of Material Design? Thanks!
On a browser, GMail scans for date/time mentions and adds dashed lines to quickly create a calendar event. Can you please add this to both Inbox in the browser and app? It seems to me like this feature would be obviously complementary to the core idea of Inbox. Thanks!
[deleted]
I love Inbox, but on the mobile version there is no option to change the notification sound. This was hugely helpful in Gmail, as different groups or bundles could have different notification sounds. Will this be coming to Inbox and any idea when?
What new features will be coming out soon?  I love inbox really nice and smooth. 
Has any thought been given to making the red compose circle movable? 
When will Inbox get more features, such as signatures and the ability to download and move attachments directly into Drive?
Parole == people? 
Why is it that the default reply option is "reply all" and not just "reply"? Also, will you add a "swipe to delete" option in the future? 
Can we get the ability to "select all" emails for a category?  This would be useful for moving to a folder or in the spam where you would want to delete all as opposed to select each individually.
Now that the G-Mail app supports 3rd Party E-Mail addresses, are there plans for Inbox and Google Now to support/manage 3rd Party Data?
Are there any new features not seen in any email app coming up?
Is there a way to customize the swipe actions in the iPhone app? I haven't been able to find a way.
What is the main reason for which people will use Inbox instead of Gmail? And what are your plans for integrating material design on the desktop?
When I Sweep or Mark Done a batch of emails, does it count towards the gmail space allotment?  There is no indication in Inbox that I can see that points to space usage at all and was wondering if just marking my emails as done instead of just leaving them as read in gmail has any difference  I have a Beta Gmail address.  Been using it since May 2004, and ive switching to Inbox fully.  Great work
Can I get my invite? I emailed you guys a while ago.
When will Inbox app support Outlook accounts like Gmail App does? 
When can we expect the next major feature roll out? Is there a roadmap of planned features at this point?  Also I love the concept but you really need a way to "select all" from a list of emails. I know there are selection tick boxes but ive yet to find a convenient way to select all from a list (ie shift clicking doesnt work and theres no select all button).  Keep up the good work!
[deleted]
When will I get better functionality to report spam and phishing attempts like GMail offers?
[deleted]
Could you give us a little heads up as to what is next for Inbox? What new features?   I personnally use it all the time! But I'd like to know about the ability to transform emails into calendar events! Will that be possible?   Thank you guys! 
Google seems to be making "two of everything" these days. Google Play Music and Youtube Music Key, Hangouts and Messenger, Google Keep reminders and Google Now reminders. Why do you think Inbox is necessary as a Google product, and how are you avoiding one service overshadowing the other?
Will you please make links/text shareable in the android app? I like to use Pushbullet to send links to my Chromebook. 
Hello can you please fix the profile picture inside inbox, if i fetch other gmail accounts? Inbox set as profile pic the pic of another gmail account instead the main. Thanks
When will signatures be an option to add to your emails?
* When will inbox use the 3 column layout that Gmail does on tablets? It provides really good screen usage with minimal white area  * Can inbox on desktop get a different layout more suited for desktop.  The current one column view is very inefficient.   * Can I get an option where I can delete instead of archive messages when I mark them as done?   Thanks for this ama!
[deleted]
Do you have a timeframe on when you will open Inbox up to corporate email?  I can already see so many uses for this with my work email since it is a Google account.
wondering about this in relation to IMAP and POP3
What's Inbox? Is it like Mailbox?
When will iOS users see iPad compatibility?
**The "Snooze until..." defaults are not convenient for me.**  Is there a way to let us customize the defaults? It's a LOT of clicks/taps to change the date &amp; time every time.
Yes!  The extra click/tap to delete is the most frustrating thing about it.
sometimes, autocorrect can tell you so much about a person
[deleted]
My university I attend uses webmail (through gmail) to host their email service. However, at the moment my account isn't supported through inbox. Is this something that would have to be fixed from your end or my university's? I would love to use this app but I rarely use my personal gmail account. Thank you!
From design point of view what do you think of springs and physics in animation vs. regular easing?  From development point of view what do you think of libraries like Rebound and Gravitas?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Will you allow more customizations in the app (like bundle icons and colors)? What about RTL support? At least in email compose screen :)
I'm guessing you're not familiar with how Gmail launched? Same deal, invite-only at first, slowly ramping up the amounts of invites and how many invites people were able to give out.
Am I missing something, or is there no home screen widget for Inbox? Seeing an email come in on my Gmail widget, but then not being able to click it when it's right there is making me feel inefficient.
Email can be so overwhelming at work. I know at my last job, I received 100-200 new messages a day from colleagues.  How do you hope Inbox is going to shift people's behaviour? How have you seen your own use change?
When will Inbox get features like "Add From Drive" and directly pasting HTML page to the compose window??
I'd like to know why you included marking all emails as unread on the mobile app but not marking all email as read?  Seems like someone should have intervened on this on.
I hear over and over again that "email is dead". I hear that "millennials" prefer text messages to email and that email is already considered legacy.  Do you consider these types of general premises as an impetus for your fresh approach to messaging?   Can you please comment on the general and future state of email in both business and personal use contexts?
I love inbox and its features, especially snoozing and reminders! Thank you so much!  The only thing I don't like is that it's not easy to delete emails. I archive some of my mails but I really don't want to archive promotions and stuff like that. Can you please make a bundle settings so that Done = Delete and not Archive? It would make it so much easier!
Why do you think i should stop using outlook and start using gmail with Inbox ?
Will there be a mobile browser version and support for browsers other than chrome?
What are your thoughts on Fluid-Touch Design?  Any plans on adding Fluid-Touch Design to Inbox or Material Design?  Example:  http://iamralpht.github.io/fab/
This is pretty par for the course for new "big" Google products.  This is not an Inbox thing, but a Google thing.
[deleted]
What are some changes/updates that we can expect to see in the near future?
why is deleting email hidden? and why can't i mark things as unread? those are my go to functions in gmail!
How can spam mail be deleted?
Isn't that the truth?  I want to change the default snooze times/events.
when will inbox gets androidified ? it is like I'm on iOS without a filesystem (can't download attachments properly).
This video demo summarizes what you're asking pretty well:  [Meet your new Inbox](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ayFAQ2OoJaA)
Now that Gmail has got this big overhaul, any chance that similar things will happen to other Google Services? E.g. Calendar
There are a few features I am missing in iOS, like App Badges and pulling from the side to open the side bar. Why didn't these make the cut, or when do you play on implementing them?   P.S. You guys have made an amazing app. Keep up the good work!
Given it is powered by GMail and it has support for them is very likely Inbox will support it sooner that later
I've not seen that in any.  In fact, since using Inbox, I basically scan the titles, and nuke from there without opening.  That's the point, to lessen interaction, and have you spending LESS time in the email.
This video is a good summary: [Meet your new Inbox](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ayFAQ2OoJaA)
Are you aware of how similar it looks and functions to Mailbox? Were you not worried about looking like a Mailbox knockoff? What makes Inbox better?
This, so much. My primary email is an Apps account. 
Much needed. At least a timeframe to give my users. They keep asking and I've got noting to tell them.
Hi!  Couple of questions here:  1. How can I change the time inbox uses to show bundle. It's cuarrently set to 7 am and it only lets me to toggle between weekly and daily.   2. Any chance of allowing custom images/icons for user created labels? This would help recognize with a quick glance what's going on.   Thanks! :) 
[deleted]
Will Inbox have improved HTML rendering, including use of media queries in the form of "@media"?  Will there be any official documentation on supported tags and features in HTML(5) and CSS(3)?  I am currently in a role as a HTML email developer/Web developer so this information would be awesome.  
Will Inbox be exclusive for @gmail.com accounts or is it like the new Gmail mobile app where I can add my outlook account too?   What feature are you most excited about? 
[deleted]
What exactly would the difference be to the current way? An easier to reach toggle? :)
Couple of non tech questions here!   a) What is your team's vision about the future of e-mail?   b) What is that one rumour about Google which regularly spouts near the water cooler?
Thanks for this AMA! What about copy/paste images?
Any plans on adding an "Start with Inbox zero" which would mark all existing email as done for new users? 
Is there a way to find Starred emails in Inbox?
Thanks for the AMA! While I am enjoying it, every once in a while I have to go back to GMail. Some little things that I really miss or have issues with:  1. Ability to save files to my drive directly from the email like you could in GMail.   2. Attaching files is a big one. I can't drag and drop files in when composing. The Android app sometimes fails to attach pictures - the app doesn't crash, just returns a message saying "failed to attach".  3. I have also noticed sometimes it'll mess up with hotel reservations. Flight itinerary seems to work pretty well but hotel not so much - I'm guessing it's the Google Now backend that you don't control directly, but would love if there was an option to classify as a reservation or make corrections. Think of it as a way to improve the machine learning algos with the help of the Inbox users.  These aren't huge issues, but I would like to see them taken care of.  Any other big updates we can look forward to that you can share with us?
When will Safari be supported?
I noticed that Inbox tends to run slower in Chrome than GMail does. Any reason why this may be and how it can be addressed?
It makes your inbox actually useful. Instead of looking at 100 emails that all fall into 5/6 labels, you'll see the 5 to 6 bundles with little snippets of attachments, events, shipping notices etc.  Clicking on a bundle shows you the message snippets, and then you can dismiss the entire bundle if you are done.  If a particular message is important you can snooze it / pin it and dismiss the rest.    I think thats the biggest benefit of the application, its Gmail (some features missing though in beta), but now additionally your inbox becomes a task management system. 
Any plans on adding an unread toggle at the top? Similar to the pinned only one to show only unread not done emails
[deleted]
When all Gmail keyboard shortcuts  will be available?  For chrome web-app, of course.
What's the prime reason which resulted in  "inbox"? 
Why is Google, the "Don't be Evil" company, refusing to create apps for Windows/Windows Phone?  Not everybody wants/has an Android phone.
Yes please!
[deleted]
Calendar integration seems like a really obvious one, and I believe they're already looking in that direction since they integrated the reminders into the Calendar app. For example, I already get my train and plane tickets, comprehensive of QR code, in GNow: the possibility to have it add a calendar event with the travel informations would be much welcome at this point (also considering iOs already has this, if I'm not mistaken).
How about swipe left to delete, swipe right to mark done? I'd love that.
Can I please for the love of Duarte's most colorful shirt have email signatures back in Inbox? 
[deleted]
[deleted]
Will we eventually be able to use Inbox with non-Google accounts?  i.e. Outlook.com, yahoo etc
[deleted]
**What is the use or user case that you envisioned for Inbox?**  Written accounts ( http://techcrunch.com/2014/11/16/why-did-google-decide-to-split-inbox-from-gmail/ ) seem to suggest that it is built for the power user, but I've found that most Gmail power users already have sophisticated labels and filters that triage their emails in a similar way that Inbox automatically does.
I read the same. Apparently Inbox was supposed to be the face-lift to Gmail but so many people internal to Google disliked the change for their internal use case, they decided to make it it's own thing. 
**Thanks All for doing this AMA!**  *I was curious how everyone got put together on this team?*   I'm guessing the selection process for each of your positions is a little different(e.g., designer selection process is different than software engineer), so I was kind of wondering how the team was brought together? Was there anything that you can remember during your selection process that looked at how well you'd work together in a cross-disciplinary team? When developing Inbox, did you collaborate with individuals in other roles on a daily basis? Things like that!   **Thanks!**
Hi, and thank you for doing this AMA! Will you implement support for IMAP/SMTP for work accounts, as the Gmail app has now? Many of use are still using two apps because of this...
Can you guys give us a hint as to the future of inbox?   PS- organizing text messages from google voice in this fashion would be absolutely incredible. As a matter of fact, I want all of my messages from everything in inbox. That would be incredible. Thanks!
Where is the done folder?
- Will you add signatures, or this is a thing of the past?              - Will you make tablet version more tablet (as Gmail)?             - Will you make desktop version more like a Gmail tablet layout,  so it utilizes widescreen much better than just lines of messages?            Otherwise i love your product :)
Can you please move "Trash" to the visible portion of the action bar?  I can't stand that it takes an extra click/tap to delete an email. I understand why you prefer the "archive" dynamic and your aversion to deleting emails -- you're Google, you want data in your system to learn from -- but I use both.  I archive as often as I delete. I archive stuff from real people and delete promotional or transactional emails I'll never read or need again.
Why support only Chrome?  I get that you probably think Chrome is the best, but requiring the company browser just reminds me of Microsoft.
Pinning emails is the best feature ever. I wish I could use this on more google apps like Keep or cards on Now. Is there a plan to implement this across other apps as well?  Also, I have a Gmail for Work ID. When can we expect Inbox capabilities for such accounts? At the moment my @my_organization.com email ID isn't compatible for Inbox. I feel Inbox would be even more useful for work emails.
How about, slide right to archive, slide left to delete? 
Can the "Send &amp; Archive" button from GMail Labs to make its way into Inbox, please?
Wrong product team. This is the Inbox team. This is like you asking a chef at Google a Nexus 6 question.
Is there a UX reason why page history was omitted? Every time I open up inbox, read an email and hit back (swiping on my trackpad), I go back to the previous site I was on... Pretty aggravating...
Is the version of events in this article correct?: http://techcrunch.com/2014/11/16/why-did-google-decide-to-split-inbox-from-gmail/  (Unlikely you'll even be able to comment, but I'll try anyway).
No. Nothing about this is new.  I already have custom tabs I can 'snooze' by just not reading the damn thing while im busy..  What is new or different? I have not seen anyone clearly express that.   Edit* yes fuck me for wanting some kind of detailed explanation
Will there be a screen widget for inbox? 
What about an iPad version?
Any chance you'll add the ability to create "bundles" for reminders? I love having my to-do list and emails in the same place but I'd like to be able to sort my work to-dos from personal to-dos since the list gets pretty long. Thanks!
I think it already does this. I bought movie tickets and the confirmation email caused an event to be created in my calendar automatically with date time and the confirmation code. 
Do you see Inbox replacing Gmail in the near future? 
It was internal, too. Google employees hated it, at least some of them.
Are you going to make "labs" for Inbox? Undo Send is one of the main features that is missing
Is there a way to deleted the thousands of unread mail from my inbox?
The "snooze" makes it go away entirely temporarily.  You don't have to choose to not read it, or remember to read it later.  You get it sent back to you at a later time or place automatically.
**Why do I have to log in the first time with my phone?**  You didn't make it backwards compatible and I'm running Gingerbread, so even though I've had my invite for a month or so, I can't use it. Is there a workaround for this? I recognize that it's designed for mobile, but I want the same features on the desktop so I don't have to switch back and forth, and eventually I will get a new phone.
[deleted]
First off Inbox&gt; Mailbox. There are a few exceptions. Could implement auto delete where the user can select a sender's email address so that their emails auto delete?  Could you add a button to the notification menu to delete an email?
This should be configurable; I prefer it to be reply all but I can see why some people would want the default to be reply.
are there plans to make the desktop browser version different than the mobile app?   I love inbox on the phone but hate using it on a desktop. the friends list isnt shown automatically, and it looks like the mobile version not optimized for the larger space of a monitor.
Is there an advantage to deleting instead of archiving? As far as I'm concerned if it's not on my screen it's not a problem. If I'm looking for old emails I have to search anyways in regular gmail.
[deleted]
When will Gmail.com look Material?
this is what I want
Doesn't work for Google Apps (natch!) and wish Google would speed up implementations of new features for these accounts and/or give an administrative option for feature parity w/gmail for less risk-adverse account owners
I'm curious what kind of research or planning went in to creating this app?  Did you have behavior analysis of people's e-mail habits?  I have been LOVING the app.  It works really well with my learning style and the general "way my brain works"...  Somehow, I actually check each message with this app.  That is something I have never done with another phone e-mail app.  Is there some research behind this accomplishment?
I have a signature set up on one of my email accounts using Gmail, but the signature doesn't show up when I send an email from that account using Inbox. Do you plan on bringing features like signatures to Inbox? Additionally, will functionality for using multiple email accounts (default reply address, settings for adding and removing accounts) be added in to Inbox, or will that be something I have to use Gmail for?
[deleted]
**SIGNATURES**  *why no?*  *pls help OP. I need to sign my things.*  Edit: Of course my question goes unheard. A conspiracy is afoot.
/u/therealvuma  - I pay a premium for Google Apps on my domain. Why am I always the LAST person to get new products, like Inbox (I have an invite, but it only works with @gmail.com addresses)?  The people who choose to pay Google directly shouldn't be afterthoughts.
For me it's quick and efficient as it allows me to shoot all unimportant emails off my screen in one tap. I also use the reminder feature as my to do list. I like the interface better than gmail's as well.
Hey! Thanks for doing this AMA.   I have both gmail and inbox installed on my phone, can you tell me in a couple of sentences why I should ditch my Gmail 5.0 for only using Inbox? Thanks!
What is your security like? Are you handing over all the users content to the NSA?
For the love of all things holy, can you please add the ability to send messages to contact groups to both the web and mobile app versions of Inbox?   This has yet to be added to the Gmail apps and is a constant source of frustration as I frequently need to communicate with groups of people at once.   Otherwise, I really like Inbox, and it has proven to be very useful to me. I love the snoozing functionality.
What did inspire you to do this?
PM me, I think I have one left. 
Seconded. This is the only thing I miss from Mailbox. Not having a "later today" that's ~3 hrs instead of just "7pm" (which Mailbox has as "this evening") or a "this weekend" is quite frustrating
Has there been any thought as to extend Inbox's style (ie swipe left to done, right to suspend, tap to pin) to other services, such as Android notifications or, I don't know, text messages?
Correct. So when is the Google keyboard team doing an AMA?  
Any estimate as to when the Inbox interface will be available for Apps for Domains customers?
Hi, Inbox is very good so far. However:  1. Will you support Compose and Reply in Plain Text in addition to Rich Text, across the website, Chrome app and the mobile apps? Currently I use Simplenote, but copying and pasting from other programs can cause formatting problems.  2. Will you support custom-set line breaks (at X characters), like the Alpine e-mail client? Currently, copying (including from Gmail in Plain Text) maintains the Gmail / Inbox-defaulted line breaks.  3. Will you introduce line numbering, character and word count, like the Vim text editor?  At present, of the above features, the Gmail website alone - i.e. not the web apps - supports Compose and Reply in Plain Text in addition to Rich Text.  Thanks.
I would prefer to archive it... but having the option to customize the actions would be good for all parties. 
When do I get an android widget? I am stuck using the regular Gmail widget with an Inbox icon next to it.
What's the motivation for deleting things to begin with?  Are you running out of space in your Gmail account?
I think Gmail used to have a tagline about never having to delete an email because of all the space it has, so that's understandably still part of philosophy. I think the intention with Gmail was always for the inbox to act like a to-do list of sorts and archiving to be the long term storage, but many, myself included, didn't realise this. Inbox makes this explicit.   Besides, it is very useful to be able to reference info from an email later. Even if you were "done" with the conversation.
I like most of the features in gmail, except the way it merges different threads of an interaction into one. Thus sometime leaving you frustrated when you are searching for it.  Does the new inbox take care of that. Does it now not merge all threads together?
The entire purpose of Gmail, since its inception, was to never need to delete email.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Why do you hide extremely common actions in the menu?  The Delete button is in the menu and you guys don't even have a mark as read/unread in the android app.  Inbox on android isn't usable for me in it's current state so I have to keep using Gmail.
Very much this.
I don't think you're the target audience.
How soon can we expect to be able to read an entire inbox email on android wear devices?
[deleted]
In one app?
Well Google gets an A and a B. Ultimately one view will win out and the best features of one will make it into the other. 
This is my question as well. I love Inbox, but I can't really fully use it because there's not all that much I need to organize in my personal inbox. 
I love inbox! My only gripe is that I have to use the system default sound for notifications. In Gmail, I could use whatever sound I wanted. Any plans to allow custom notification sounds in a future update? 
I think we should get the option. I don't like archiving every email, it wreaks havoc with searches later on. 85% of my personal email I prefer to read and delete. For the 15% that I want to keep forever, I'll archive.  Why not give us something like swipe left to delete, swipe right to archive?
I heard, media queries in their list of next updates. Can Taylor K. or Gmail team confirm it?
Will you guys ever do away with the Gmail app once and for all?
When will I be able to copy/paste from pretty much anywhere in the app?
You know what would be great? If marking an email in Inbox wouldn't archive the same mail in Gmail.  I basically use Inbox to check and manage my daily mails and use the Gmail app to organize my mails.  Also, Inbox's ability to snooze and remind me later basically cries out for Exchange support.
First, I love Inbox. Will it replace Gmail or will it eventually be a blend. Will you add Stars (some system to make messages less important than a pinned message, more important that remind someday) When will composing a message be on the level of Gmail? (add from drive, drag drop, formatting, ...)
They not only tried this with the new Gmail app, but eliminated the AOSP email in Lolipop, forcing you to use it. Except neither Gmail nor any third party email client I've used actually works with my college email, and AOSP Email did.  I've even verified this by putting in identical settings on my phone running 4.3 (5.0 is only on my tablet) and it works like a charm.  Majorly pisses me off.
Can [Sad Cloud](http://www.reddit.com/r/Android/comments/2msmn8/i_think_we_found_a_new_mascot/) be implemented into Inbox? Please? It would make it happy.
Any plans for implementing email signatures in inbox?
[deleted]
I'll give you a hypothetical scenario... you're looking for a receipt from Old Navy for some clothes you bought online. You search "Old Navy" in Gmail and get 100's of their promo emails in your archive instead of the emails that you're looking for. If I could delete those promo emails (which I get way more often than receipts) then there is no problem! Also, then they're not counting towards my data usage.
Hey Guys,  First off, congrats on shipping a fantastic product. I dare say I've stopped using gmail and migrated entirely to Inbox. It just makes more sense to my work flow.  I have couple of questions today:  * Will we see Google Labs features integrated sometime?  * When will I be able to set my signature? * When can we see a tablet optimized version of Inbox?   Thanks a lot for your time. 
Do you have plans to support responsive email? It seems pretty ridiculous that a mobile-first email app doesn't support responsive email and the majority of emails look like crap in it. The regular Gmail app has the same problem too. Pretty hard to use the apps because of this.
Why don't Google Keep reminders appear in Inbox? Will they in the future?
Great article. Really interested to find out details.
Hi, a few suggestions that would greatly improve Inbox:  1. Allow us to set the default snooze times for emails. 2. In the web interface, searches no longer include Hangouts conversations. I have to open gmail to search through my conversations. 3. How can I clear my spam folder?
Now with Gmail app adding support for IMAP and Exchange Accounts. Is there any plan to support Inbox features for non gmail accounts?   Would be really helpful to prioritize work email.
I must say that I really love the product so far. Was this a direct product of Sparrow being brought over to Google? Also, currently if I want to set up a filter I have to do it in Gmail, are there any plans to bring filters and such to Inbox?  Thank you!
They don't show up in searches later on if they're deleted. What's the point of saving something you don't need (like a promo email for a sale from 2009)?
Any chance we can see an update/option so that it shows email from all linked accounts at once? I'd rather not have to switch accounts to see my various emails. Thanks!
Exactly. I've found searching already to be MUCH harder, because I can't add a "crap I wanted to delete" filter.
Are you going to let other mail services be used on Inbox like the Gmail app?
I love inbox and have been using it as my primary email app since release, however I find that the search functionality is pretty terrible and I always end up going back to gmail if I need to search for something. Why is it so different?
[deleted]
It makes searching much more difficult. If you search for a jcrew order, all of the jcrew promo emails show up as well.
I have a gmail account with years of read mail. Adopting the inbox model is difficult, if only because it's so hard to get down to a clean inbox from where I am. Do you have signals that many other users are in the same boat? Any plans to make this easier?
I love Inbox and use it as my primary e-mail reader. I've even disabled all gmail notifications and rely fully on Inbox on my phone. Having said that I want to point out a few things that could work better, imho:   * When marking things done, can you also make it so the mails are marked as read in gmail? * Can you make the 'Show bundle' time/day editable? * I would also like it if I could have bundles auto-delete mails after a set time. I have created a rule in gmail clearing out promos after a week, but having an interface for this in the bundle settings would be nice.  Thanks again for an excellent app that can only get better.
[deleted]
This is the only question I have about Google Inbox and would love to see an answer.
Any plans to make custom bundles more...custom? Like options for user selected icons and colors?  ---  Android Specific  Are there any plans for a slightly less goofy layout on tablets? The new gmail looks *sweet* in landscape. Inbox not so much.  Also, any chance we could get custom notification options on a per-bundle basis. Maybe I want my social notifications to chirp, but my updates to shout "you've got mail".
Will support for third-party clients ever be introduced like you did in gmail for android?
Not only responsive email but when will Gmail support any CSS in the &lt;head&gt; of an HTML email at all? Currently all Gmail apps (including Gmail on the web) remove the &lt;style&gt; block from the &lt;head&gt;.   Gmail is the only email app that forces email designers and developers to write inline CSS just to keep formatting intact. It's pretty ridiculous. 
[deleted]
Just sort your search results by date.  And I've unsubscribed from that type of promo email, but if you insist on receiving that sort of marketing spam, isn't it supposed to be filtered into another tab?
Can Keep be integrated within?
In addition to this, I'd like to see Photos integration as well.
Really loving Inbox so far. When will we be able to have the "Last" snooze option synced across devices? Even if I close and re-open the Inbox app, the last button isn't there anymore.  Thanks!
I'm the exact opposite, I delete most of my emails because they're notifications (ex: "Your bank statement is ready to view") that are good for one-time use and then I never want to see them again (and I don't want them taking up space).
I'm a google apps user and now hate Google because they decided to not give us the option to offer inbox to our users. This is stupid, are we going back to the days when new google services are not an option for Google apps admins to switch on? How hard would it have been to let admins switch on accepting inbox invites? 
[deleted]
Hello all, thanks for taking the tie out to do this AMA.  I have a non-techie kind of question.  I own a nexus 5 with  side loaded lollipop  previously, i had the Gmail app and a separate Email app that was on the phone.  Now they are bundled up together.  I used the Email app for my work mail and gmail for personal, even tho they all ended up in my gmail.  Since they are now bundled together, they have an identical user interface, with no setting to individualize them.  (making one be a different color, for instance).  I am going to assume that Inbox will also be rolled into Gmail to keep everything tidy.  my question is, if this is the case, will there be a way to customize its appearance to make it easier to distinguish from the other two Gmail apps?
We are actively working on some functionality that adds some control over Snooze, but we try to add controls thoughtfully.  We make design decisions about Snooze based on usage data, trying to get every single Snooze to be a single tap.  Personalization will help, but so will other features like smarter defaults.  Expect to see improvements that make Snoozing easier in the coming months!
Yeah, and even after you choose "Custom" it's still not convenient.
Do you see Inbox as the spiritual successor of Google Tasks, or does the later still have a place in the world?
They have labels, or at least the Gmail app does. Helps me sort through receipt emails, personal stuff and work stuff. Does Inbox even utilize it, though? I ask because it seems like Google's been working at moving away from the label function as of late.
Hi Inbox team!  Can you explain your use of GWT in Inbox? My team uses GWT and we'd love to hear about how you use it and your experiences.
For me its a tie between Undo Send and cross-browser support. Both are being worked on but just werent ready in time for launch.
I certainly hope not! Gmail is a million times more useful than Inbox. Give Gmail the Material Design look and add the snooze feature and everything will be perfect.
I'd ask a bigger question: are you just always on the lookout for sales?  You actually *don't unsubscribe from promotional email?*  Do you just hate yourself or something?
Can we get an option to open an email in gmail? Sometimes you need access to options inbox doesn't have like viewing a raw email.
I feel like there are a lot of memory leaks in the current version. I leave it open all the time in a chrome tab, and after 12-24hrs I look and that tab alone is using 500+mb of ram by itself. This is with maybe 20-40 messages un-archived over a month or two of display, a ton less than I used to keep open in old gmail (yes, I'm an email hoarder). Other obnoxious apps (facebook, for instance, and even RES) can do this, but I've come to expect more from google products. Is this just me or something you guys are working to correct?  I'm running on ubuntu linux 14.04.1 w/ Chrome 38 (i let it auto-update and that's what it gives me). Am I doing something wrong?  Also, it's not intuitive to do things like view all starred messages... I have to search to find old notes and stuff I marked to keep track of. I love the minimal, keep-your-inbox-clean design it pushes on you, but it does make it a little difficult to find things i don't WANT to fall out of sight/mind or want easy access to without having to remember strings to search on. Can I make a "starred" folder like gmail has? Other than pinning, since I don't need them in my face all the time, either...
Fair point, but I'd just search Old Navy Receipt. For example, if I forget a password to a website I search "amazon account" or "amazon password", and despite not deleting emails it's always right there. Counterpoint, say you delete an email for something you don't think you're going to need later and empty the trash or the trash auto-empties it - then you can't find it at all.  As for data usage I'm not sure how it works, I have unlimited, does storing emails use up data?
What would be awesome is having the default swipe for different bundles be different. For promotions, when I'm done with them, I usually want them deleted, not archived.  Perhaps even better for promotions would be if Inbox could figure out whether the particular offer had expired yet and delete it, but that might be difficult to get accurate.
Hey guys!! Loving Inbox so far! Will there be any integration for Reminders between Inbox and Keep? I like Keep and Inbox but hate having reminders not show up on one or the other. Also, are there any plans to make Inbox available to have as a shortcut for Chrome when you click the square box for apps on Google pages? Thanks!
Searching doesn't filter by tab; it just shows everything in one big list.  Also, I like receiving promo emails. They let me know, for example, when there's a concert in my area that I'd want to see. So I go buy tickets to see it. Later, when I search to find my ticket purchase, and search for the artist, I have to sort through all the promos that I would have otherwise deleted.  This is a very specific example, but it highlights a problem: emails exist that I want to read once and be done with, forever. I don't want them to contribute to my inbox later when I'm searching for things, causing excess clutter.
[deleted]
You have users running a beta product demanding features? Lol
How did you settle on the name "Inbox"? 
[deleted]
There are already a number of integrations with Calendar: flights and appointments from your mail are automatically added, Calendar RSVPs are natively supported, etc.  We have lots of ideas in this area, so stay tuned!  I actually manage the Calendar design team in addition to the Inbox/Gmail designers, so these integrations are really important to me.  As for signatures, there is a long list of Gmail features that will eventually come to Inbox. We really want to balance building those features with building out new features that continue to improve the Inbox product concept. You'll see lots of these smaller additions (along with big new things) arrive over the coming months.  This is all about prioritization.
So I've asked twitter twice now about Google Apps users - and I'm not going to ask the same question, I already know there's no ETA (though even a quarter would be nice) and that it's in the pipeline.  So my question is probably for /u/tayloratinbox but maybe also /u/therealvuma:  **What are the challenges involved with Google Apps users?  What generally leads to them getting features slower than normal google users?**  I signed up for Google Apps when it was free and it had kind of this personal use thing to it (though that's obviously gone now) so my google apps account is my personal account with my domain name.  It's unfortunate that it keeps getting features slower than normal Google accounts because I'm an early adopter - but it's far too late for me to switch back to my @gmail account, as I have a tonne of data and purchases through my apps account.  
I really wanted to launch customization for Snooze times, since I know that lots of users love Snooze and want to make it their own.  We are working on this now!
Is it just me, or is it a lot harder to search for chats in Inbox? I went back to gmail and did a quick in:chats and got my results immediately. This didn't work in Inbox.
My invites always fail? 
[deleted]
Why did you do an AMA at the same time as dexter? Aren't you afraid that tonight will be the night? 
Why can you not add or create folders to separate emails? I.e. Primary, social, promotions, updates, and forums. I want more options!!!! Am I doing something wrong or are we limited???
That would mean you need to know the date. Even then, you'd still have to visually parse whatever promos you received in that range.
Media query support, CSS3 support. Will you be implementing these? iOS mail supports these but both Inbox and Gmail do not. Since Gmail and most likely Inbox, will be supporting other e-mail services, the need for the stock Android e-mail app will diminish, and leave an even larger gap in e-mail accessibility on mobile devices.
Same situation here.  This really needs to pull in your already created distribution lists. 
Once I started attempting "Inbox Zero," it forced me to make a choice of whether I needed to keep an email or delete it... I started realizing that I didn't need to keep the majority of my emails. A good benefit is that it does cut down on the clutter from promos and makes searching easier.  Also, just moving it from the Inbox to Done just doesn't feel right when I didn't "do" anything.
Yes! Were surprised by how strong the demand has been for Drive integrations, especially Drive attachments. Well be working with the team in the new year to bring a lot of that awesomeness into Inbox.
Hopefully this is across the board for both inbox and Gmail. Considering Gmail makes up a relatively high amount of email opens and clickthroughs on mobile. 
Can you sell me on inbox? I love Google products, I really do, and I want to love inbox. I just can't figure out why I need it over regular ol' Gmail. What's more, I feel like I have a better chance to miss stuff on inbox. So, win me over(and others who are on the fence)!   What am I not realizing about inbox that would make it better than Gmail? Or are they different products for different users? 
How will best describe the idea behind Inbox in as little words as possible?  And why are we still archiving mails instead of deleting them? Never understood that part.
Question to Taylor.  What are some recommendations / advice you would give to a college student studying computer science?
Inbox seems very focused. What's its "mission"? How are you going about  prioritizing/cutting features so it doesn't accidentally turn into Gmail?
Lots of people get promotional emails from websites like Amazon, JCrew, etc. I actually subscribe to them because I want to know about sales that are happening and when they happen. I'm pretty sure I'm not alone here.
[deleted]
Same goes for how often you see certain bundles, the default times aren't great. If we could customize it the same way repeated events work in Google Calendar that would be amazing!
Are we ever going to be able to create our own icons for our created categories? The envelope icons are really bland.
Will you be reincorporating the ability to paste screenshots or images directly into an email body? 
Supporting these accounts comes with other demands and we're working hard on addressing them so we can get Inbox to Google Apps users.  We were pleasantly surprised to see how open-minded Inbox users are to making big changes to their work email workflow, and the high demand for Inbox on Google Apps accounts has already caused us to speed up our efforts to bring Inbox to all of you.  Hang tight!
Are there plans to add gchat or at least the better version of Hangouts that Gmail has (with a list of online contacts) to Inbox?
Usage data is more influenced by how the UI is presented than what would actually be more intuitive. :P
Hey guys. Thanks for doing this. I got an invite on day one and haven't looked back. Love Inbox. Two quick ones:  Can we expect reminders created in inbox, especially recurring ones, to properly show up in calender soon? Only gripe at the moment.   Support for services other than Gmail? 
Are attachments going to improve to provide more choice like in gmail?
Will Google Keep be integrated within the mobile app?
Unfortunately, we cant share the number of users who are using Inbox right now.  Were looking carefully at overall usage numbers (daily / weekly / monthly active users), usage of features and the product itself based on cohorts (groups of users who started around the same time).  We also pay close attention to how many invites get sent out every day, and how often those invitations are claimed by users.
Why does't Inbox have a simple "Mark as Read" option? Not every mail in my inbox has to be "Done" or "Snoozed" - some of them are simply information for me to consume (bug reports, CC-ed mails, etc.) and I feel uncomfortable marking them as done or snoozing them.  I'd like to revisit them at leisure but don't want to setup unnecessary reminders for them...
Not sure how integrated they are now, but are there any future plans for moto voice compatibility with inbox?
True, you could search that, but it still returns the other unwanted emails. I know you can filter searches too, but that means you have to know other search criteria (e.g., when did I buy that thing?). It makes it harder to find. It's more just a pain to have to search through junk you don't want.  If there was even a slight chance I may need something later I wouldn't delete it... But if you archive everything and then are searching for something later, you might not find it depending on how much other junk it's sifted in with. I guess it goes both ways. Maybe we need a better way to search archived emails instead?
yeah, Ive found that my gmail account, which is not spammed out, winds up showing just a few emails in inbox, so I miss many. 
I understand the emphasis on the "Done" archiving in Inbox, but one of my biggest pet peeves has been that the Done button in the Inbox Android app is where the Send button is on the GMail app. Since I'm still bouncing between both, I'm generating a ton of unsent drafts when I use Inbox.  Is there a plan to bring the two interfaces into step, or is the idea for Inbox to supplant the Gmail app and I'll just have to learn to pay attention to what I'm doing?
Love the product, but where'd desktop notifications and flashing chat notifications go?
I really hate inbox, like a lot. Are you ever going to take gmail away from me and force me to use inbox? 
That is something weve received many requests for.  Were actively looking in to it.  One of our design principles is that features should work the same way across all platforms, so if we were to build this it would need to work seamlessly across the web, smartphones, tablets, etc.
How is it like working at Google compared to your past jobs? 
Yes! The default snooze for the following day is 07:00am, which is far too early for a lazy person like me.
I wanted to launch tablet support at the same time as phone and web.  Email is one of the primary uses for tablets!  Again this was just a matter of prioritization: we needed our iOS and Android dev teams to focus on launching high-quality phone apps first.
Any chance we can get an update where we can add a signature to be applied to all emails? It's frustrating having to type it in every time.  Thanks!
Is there a plan to release a Windows Phone version, coming soon or later?
Is the rendering engine for Inbox the same as Gmail? I have noticed a few differences in rendering.
I understand Inbox is a Google product, but given the wide range of technologies behind email services this days, are there any plans to support adding external accounts that are not Gmail or Google Apps?
The way people use email has changed a huge amount since we launched Gmail.  With Inbox, we took a step back and did a lot of research into how most people are using email today.  What we found was that email works as a todo list for many people, that phone usage is starting to eclipse desktop usage, and that many people have negative feelings towards email because it feels like so much work.  We built Inbox as a separate product because we didnt feel like we could solve those problems by just adding more features on to Gmail.  We needed to start from scratch to build a tool that really helps you stay on top of your life. 
This is ultra-annoying, especially as it requires logging back into Gmail to empty the bin and spam folders.
Do you usually have months-old J. Crew orders you need to search up?  Does searching the phrase "j. crew order" instead of "j. crew" not solve this problem?  I still feel like this is entirely a problem of your own making.
Why can't you sort by sender or any other fields?
Not sure if they get read by humans or not, but if so, what are some of the more memorable emails send to inbox@google.com during the Inbox happy hours?
Agree!
Can I please have an invite? I don't know what Inbox is but I am a nerd and I love nerdy things. I also like useful things, so....
This is the only reason I do not use inbox. With this feature I'd be a happy consumer. Without I do not use the product. The option to do this would be a simple upgrade that should be done on web and mobile. It could be in the settings also I don't care how it's enabled. 
There is a huge subset of email that is used as notifications, which are good for one-time use and then you never want to see them again:    * New bill  * Weekly/Monthly bank account/stocks summary  * Large financial transaction warning  * Check-in for your flight
I noticed the lack of it when I opened Inbox on my tablet.  I was very pleasantly surprised with the new gmail app's tablet support though - it's very pretty and lovely to work with.  Please do take inspiration from it if you haven't already!
May have been asked but didnt see it:  I get Inbox's goal, and it pulls that off WELL - Can you guys elaborate on the decision to nix the "email" client for pop/exchange etc and merge it into GMAIL, but LEAVE the "email" client installed as well.  I see Googs likes to do this a lot, and I get the tactic (i think!) of almost drip testing... but id like to hear it elaborated on if possible?  Keep up the good work!
[deleted]
Will any of Inbox, Hangouts, Messaging, Calendar and/or Google+ (etc.) be merged, so you can see everything in one place?
At the Inbox Love Conference, recently, when asked about media-query support in Inbox the response was "It's a priority". While that's made this email marketer hopeful, can you shed any more light on this? Is this in an actual game plan for Inbox or are we going to be kept waiting?
In addition to swipe to delete, there needs to be a single tap delete option both within a message and when selecting multiple messages.  Not all e-mail is worthy of archiving.  I have little use for a Dunkin Donuts special after the offer has ended.
Just because one doesn't need to delete emails doesn't mean one wouldn't want to.
Were working as fast as we can on enabling other browsers as soon as possible. We're already doing Google-wide testing for cross-browser support but we want to make sure that everything works perfectly before enabling it for all of our users.
Wooo! I've been so excited for this AMA. I'm a HTML email developer/designer so I work with Gmail all day every day. I wish I could chat to you guys all day long about email technology.  **Will Inbox affect us developers at all? Will there be any new functionality that we can use?**  This isn't directly related to Inbox but could you explain why Gmail doesn't support media queries for responsive HTML emails and are there any plans to add support?  Also what happened to the promotions tab grid view? Will that be implemented any time soon?  Many thanks for your time guys!
According to [this interview!](http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/22/google-unveils-inbox-a-new-take-on-email-and-possibly-a-replacement-for-gmail/) Jason doesn't use use Gmail himself anymore.  That's great for Inbox, but wouldn't that cause the quality of GMail to slip?
Why are Apps customers constantly treated as second-class citizens? While I realize that there are privacy and other issues for companies using Apps, a simple admin toggle for each new feature/product would take care of these concerns. Remember that a large portion of Apps customers are not companies but rather individuals who simply need to use their own domain. 
Did you test the Inbox invitation email before sending it.. in any inbox other than Inbox? That shit was wack.
When will Gmail get media query support? Or more broadly: when will you stop ignoring CSS that's not inline?  As a user, Gmail and Inbox are almost perfect. As a professional e-mail marketeer, it's a nightmare.
What kinds of features does Inbox look for in an e-mail when attempting to classify it to a bundle? Is machine learning used in the process?
Going forward how will you decide what's an Inbox feature VS what's a Gmail feature?
For myself and as stated above, promo emails are worthless for archiving. I don't want any of those emails popping up when I do a search for an email.
For anyone who designs responsive e-mails and is not ignoring Gmail &amp; Inbox's lack of media query support, we're having to design these e-mails a certain way from the start, just to support gmail &amp; inbox on mobile devices. If they add support, they'll be making our lives so much easier, and they'll be improving the end-user's experience, drastically. 
[deleted]
But random internet guy thinks you're using the Internet wrong because that's not how he does it!  (Of fucking course you're not alone here)
But...you don't have to see them again.  You have nigh-unlimited space, and unless you just, I don't know, look through old email for fun, you'll never really see them again unless you want to.  I get all of those sorts of email, and I haven't deleted one the entire time I've used Gmail.  It's been a solid decade of that at this point.  I have literally no trouble finding anything when searching.  I don't understand this frustration.
Any chance I can borrow 20 bucks?  Thanks
Sounds great--I particularly like the current gmail ability to click on a proposed meeting time in an email and have it bring up a link to add it to my calendar.
I realize this is a bit off topic, but is the Calendar web app going to receive a material update soon?  Additionally, I don't understand what causes contextual images to appear in the schedule page. Does it not add custom images for recurring tasks? I use recurring tasks heavily and would like to see the schedule update with the material graphics (cycling, running, etc.)  Thanks!
My coworker said it's "pretty lame" that you can't compose emails in full-screen (as in, not the little box down in the corner, but a full window view of your email). Personally I don't care, but he seemed upset about it. Any plans to add that functionality in the future?
Hi Jeremy - I just answered a similar question above, so copying here:  Supporting these accounts comes with other demands and we're working hard on addressing them so we can get Inbox to Google Apps users.  We were pleasantly surprised to see how open-minded Inbox users are to making big changes to their work email workflow, and the high demand for Inbox on Google Apps accounts has already caused us to speed up our efforts to bring Inbox to all of you.  Hang tight!
This. I need a way to shift click to delete multiple emails also! I love the design but the functionality isn't quite there for me to stop using other mail clients. 
That would work beautifully.  Ideally I'd still like to be able to delete from the android notification shade, but I guess we can't expect miracles.
Any plans on having a dedicated delete button on the main task bar? I find myself cleaning my inbox and thanks to your app, my inbox has been cleared...but it's been a hassle to go into the settings and deleting emails that way.
Why are hangouts not built into inbox?
Do you consider a hamburger to be a type of sandwich, or an entity of its own?
Fantastic news! Thank you!
Yeah, its approaching Outlook levels of workarounds to get emails to display properly in the gmail app and on the web.
You should archive them, not delete them. Then just search your inbox and not everything.
Undo send would be amazing
Yes, I have to find receipts for past orders for any number of reasons. It might be Amazon, it might be JCrew, Old Navy, any company.   Example: Searching "Old Navy order" or "Old Navy receipt" brings up every single promo email from Old Navy, Banana Republic, and Gap, since they are all under the same umbrella. The fuzzy search works against you in this case.  Read the other comments, others are having the same problem.
I moved from Gmail to Inbox a few weeks ago. What I really miss is the ability to add multiple labels to an email. Are there any plans to introduce the label format to Inbox?
Absolutely this. I end up just snoozing multiple times because it's easier than choosing a better time.
[deleted]
I like a lot about Inbox but one thing I wish were different is that to delete something takes two clicks. Was it purposely designed this way to encourage people to archive instead of deleting? Is there any plans to add one click deleting?
As of right now the lack of Undo Send is the only thing keeping me from being 200% happy with inbox. Though I guess it makes my life more exciting, so there's that.
Hi,  When I press the done button next to a month of emails, all of them get into the done folder. But it happens in reversed order! So mails from the 1st of October was on top, and had to scroll down a lot to see the mails from 31st of October. A workaround is that I press done on mails individually, one by one, from bottom to top.  Mails in the done folder should be in reversed order by date, are you planning on implementing that? 
One of my initial gripes that I sent to the Inbox team, which received no response.  "System default" is really not helpful in knowing if an important message has shown up that I need to attend to.  Android Wear has made this unknown easier to address, but I don't have it on me 100% of the time.
Does this mean that inbox and Gmail will forever exist as separate products and won't ever merge?
What's your favorite topping for any food?
Any plans to offer "swipe to delete" option? Only thing preventing me from using Inbox as my main app is what a pain it is to delete message.
Hey, guys! Thanks for the AMA!  I have two questions:  * Will Inbox ever show us the number of new/unread emails on the tab without us having to open it?  * Is there any way to show what label any given message belongs to (if any)? It would be great if the label could be shown on the subject line.
Will Undo Send be added eventually? That has saved me many a time.
Any potential time frame for releasing for google apps users. For instance .Edu email addresses?
[deleted]
Search "Old Navy Receipt", done. If you don't mind doing a little extra work, add a label/folder with Receipts in them. 
Do you have plans to incorporate hangouts searching in Inbox? Hangout searches and better contact information are the two reasons I switch to Gmail from Inbox.  Thanks for the AMA!
Is there a way to search my hangout history in my inbox? I could do this easily in the old gmail by just typing in the person's name but I don't see any chat history with the new inbox search.
I love using Inbox for all my email, but I'm really missing signatures. Any plans to incorporate the feature?
I'm using mine on my 1st gen Nexus 7, and it seems great. But if you're doing customization for tablets, even better
Was any of the code base from Sparrow incorporated into Inbox?
usually, i delete unwanted mails rather than archive them. will there be "delete by swiping" feature in coming days?
Can't you just let us use it with a caveat it might not work for all features? It's frustrating that it's artificially limited - I use Google for Work for my personal accounts because it's impossible to get a meaningful @gmail.com address these days, so I'm being punished for giving you money? 
There was a screensaver sometime around 2000 that would redirect all spam back to the originator. why was it made illegal? Does gmail use any parts of that code today?
Notifications are so finicky on iOS. Sometimes they come in, sometimes they don't. The badge icon never works properly. Are these issues you are working to fix?
Then how do you snooze?
"Old Navy receipt" brings up old promo emails from Banana Republic, Gap and Old Navy (they are under the same umbrella).  Also, adding a label to every receipt is totally do-able. But it's just a work-around and isn't as convenient as swiping to archive and swiping to delete the ones I don't need.
How does this testing process work? Changing Safari's user agent to Chrome makes it work fine.
The only problem I've ever had with Google mail is having to go deep into the settings to force a POP account to be checked. I use my work email through Gmail and get emails 45 minutes after they're sent. Why isn't there an option/button to force-check?
Are you working on a printing feature for inbox? 
[deleted]
Yeah /u/slymm must talk about XFCE a lot.
The desktop interface is my main annoyance with Inbox right now. It's basically the Android app stretched to fit a large screen, with a lot of wasted white space.
What happens to feedback submitted through the form in the sidebar?
To each of you respectively: What was the hardest Design, Programming and management hurdle you had to get past for the initial launch of Inbox?
[deleted]
Just search for "is:starred" (there are other options like that too, "has:attachment", "is:unread" etc)
Any Inbox swag you can send me???
Bundling gives you all sorts of new options that you didnt have in Gmail, like the ability to throttle a label so that it only shows up once a day or once a week.  If you have an elaborate system of labels and filters you can translate that system into bundles pretty easily but it is not exactly the same because bundling adds a new set of features and options.  If you are a heavy label and filter user we encourage you to dive in to bundle settings to see how you can take advantage of all of the new features bundles give you.  Theyre really powerful, and we designed them with heavy users of filters in mind.
As far as Gmail is concerned we dont have anything to announce at this time.  At the moment we have no plans to change swipe so that it deletes instead of marks a message as done.  We think its important to have a non-destructive dismiss action so that you can swipe away both email that you need to save as well as email that you dont need to save without having to think about it.  But, weve heard the feedback that some users want it to be easier to delete and were exploring different options. 
Hi gTeam! When will I be able to access my groups to send an email?
Do you have a link to the article?   I'm using my google apps account in inbox. I set it up in my gmail account. I don't know if that's acceptable solution for you but it seems to work fine. 
How many of you actually wear android wear products (watch, glasses, communicator badge, etc) and are you doing anything special over what you did with gmail to integrate "Inbox" into Google Now?
Could you highlight emails in the SPAM folder a bit? Since I use Inbox I forgot to check that folder until yesterday. A counter for new SPAM mails like in Gmail would be great.
Maybe you can swipe all the way left to archive or half-way left to snooze? Or have an option to disable swipe left to delete and make it snooze instead?
why can't you save emails to your desktop?
Why not integrate it with gmail?? have a toggle option to enable Inbox features
That sounds like a workflow issue with several possible solutions.   First of all, Inbox separates purchases and promos and shows search results that are prioritized (try searching for something you bought recently, the product receipt/package tracking data comes first then the other emails).   Secondly, Inbox helps with overwhelming emails by having some actions available right within the app - like one click unsubscribe or confirmations.   Third, Inbox has a different paradigm and requires a different approach than standard email. Trying to foist your current workflow on it isn't the best path to take or the most satisfactory. It requires a little bit of thinking and adaptation but the cognitive overhead isn't as much as, say, learning how to use Gmail like a pro and setting up fine-grained filters. 
Hello Inbox team!  First I'd like to thank you for your work on this amazing application. It is truly the approach that was needed for email and the way it organizes my email for me is flawless. I was initially shocked when I logged into gmail from my home pc and saw how empty my Shopping and Updates tabs were. Being able to swipe away HUNDREDS of emails is absolutely amazing.  As for my question, I'm curious about what the next step is for Inbox. Is the end goal to be a full replacement for Gmail? Or will this be more so a tool for power users or others who want to have more functionality with their email?  Additionally where does your team take inspiration in terms of what features are and or not, useful for users? Sometimes it feels like Google has an answer for everything and it's a little creepy.
Inbox doesn't seem to recognize my contact groups or provide easy access to my contact lists at all. Is this on the list of things to add? 
Have you taken any inspiration from Google Wave?  Did you (personally) like or dislike Google Wave?  Why?
I hope so. I use inbox throughout the day to pins things and whatnot, but I check gmail every day or so because sometimes I lose an email in the myriad of bundles that inbox has. Overall I like inbox way more than gmail, pinning things is incredibly useful, but sometimes I just want a list of emails.
So the main app is in java if I remember correctly? Are any other languages involved in developing Inbox?
do you think this is the dumbest AMA of all time? 
Are we going to get a better compose box on the desktop?  What is there is ridiculously small, and unless I'm composing an email no longer than a text message, I have to switch back to the regular Gmail, that tiny window is way too constricting.
I just answered a similar question above, so copying here: Supporting these accounts comes with other demands and we're working hard on addressing them so we can get Inbox to Google Apps users. We were pleasantly surprised to see how open-minded Inbox users are to making big changes to their work email workflow, and the high demand for Inbox on Google Apps accounts has already caused us to speed up our efforts to bring Inbox to all of you. Hang tight!
If you go to developer mode and set Firefox user agent as Chrome you should be able to access Inbox on Firefox. This trick works on Safari. 
I don't need my Tim Hortons 3-day promo from 2009 anymore tho.
[deleted]
I'll be perfectly honest in that Inbox for my personal Gmail account is nifty, but ultimately useless to me. I simply do not receive enough action-oriented mail in my personal account.   I do, however, have third-party plugins and other silly workarounds in my office Gmail account because I really need to shepherd those interactions very finely.   That's all to say thanks very much for the really cool app. I can't wait to use it where I need it the most!
[deleted]
[Check it out here,](http://gmailblog.blogspot.co.uk/2014/11/going-under-hood-of-inbox.html) it's an interesting read if you're at all technically minded.  I had considered that solution but I'd rather keep the two separate for now... although I guess Inbox would make it easy to manage.
In the short term, no.  In the very long term, we hope so.  Inbox is something new - thats why were launching it as a separate product.  We care deeply about Gmail and Gmail users, but in the long run as we add more features to Inbox and respond to user feedback we hope that everyone will want to use Inbox instead of Gmail.  Ultimately, our users will decide.
You probably won't answer this - again - , but here goes nothing: Can you give an ETA on Inbox for Google Apps?
You shouldn't, the sorting is still very rudementary compared to typical filters/rules people have in established gmail accounts.
Hey there, recently I had a job interview and Google on my phone know this based on my emails and reminded me. This lack of privacy is cool but scary. So, My question, how long until Skynet?
If you want to beta-test with reddit, I know there are at least a few of us who would be more than willing to test it out!  What do you think the biggest challenge is right now for this? Is it generating effective bundles for a higher diversity of email types in work email?
When will I be able to search something and mass delete? There is no way other than individual swipes. 
[deleted]
I'm with you on this one. I'm a zero inbox user by nature so "Inbox" added nothing to me except the reminder functionality. Now, if they bundled that into existing GMail app, I'd be one happy camper.
Let's hope not.
Not creating apps for Windows phone isn't evil.
Will it be possible to use inbox with an IMAP mail account?
I partially answered this in another comment but Ill repeat it here: we think its important to have a non-destructive dismiss action so that you can swipe away both email that you might need to refer to one day as well as email that you dont need to save without having to think about it too much.  But, weve heard the feedback that some users want it to be easier to delete and were exploring different options.
[deleted]
Second this! I like having the normal notification chime for texts, and the facebook pop for emails. That way I can totally decide to ignore a notification. 
We just added support for other mail systems in the Gmail app on Android, so this is definitely something were interested in!  Ultimately we want Inbox to be able to manage all sorts of content from other sources, but we dont have concrete plans to announce at this time.
I would totally want the undo-send feature. Curious as to how this works, I'm guessing when you click 'send' it doesn't officially send for a small amount of time, giving you the chance to undo it?  Or is it a feature exclusively for 'Inbox' users where you can actually undo a sent email that had already made it's way to another Inbox user?
Will it be possible to customize the UI density, especially on the Android app? I can see only three (!) mails that have attachments or links in them as opposed to GMail's 7, and can read less than half a sentence of each latest mail instead of two.   I like to have a decent overview of my inbox, and Inbox doesn't really provide that. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
People will forget which way to slide, and tears will be shed. Guaranteed. 
Suggestion: Swipe towards Done, but hold until the green for Done turns into a red for Delete.  Thanks for Inbox, it's awesome! I use it on the desktop almost as much as the one on my phone!
One of the criticisms of Google regarding its material design guidelines is there are no shortage of examples, demonstrations and detail on how you should make things look, but very few tools or samples to actually help implement them.  Do you have your own in-house implementations for a lot of these design elements, or are you re-building them for each product? I'd wager the latter due to the lack of consistency between apps, but perhaps you could shed some light on this.
Is there a way to get around the Google location settings? I live in Cyprus which doesn't have access to google now, which is one of the best part of having a smart phone. 
Yes, we're working on it right now.
That could almost be interpreted as research into returning Google Reader by bundling it's features into Inbox - which would be amazing
Will the Inbox e-mail client eventually be as full-featured as the Gmail client?  Inbox lacks things like text-coloring, alignment, fonts, etc. I don't use them too often, but when I do, it's kind of annoying to have to open up Gmail.  On that note, why doesn't the inline reply/forward input area have the same capabilities as the pop-out editor?  PS I love Inbox.
Is there a way to select all mail items in Inbox by Gmail ?
Inbox is super awesome, but Microsoft just acquired Acompli which looks to be quite good with Exchange accounts - will we see Inbox supporting enterprise exchange accounts? 
[deleted]
Could we please have a feature that marks the conversation as read when its marked as done?
Disclaimer: Im a developer on the web client and not the Android app.   The Material Design guidelines were still under development while many recent apps were being designed. We expect to resolve consistency issues in upcoming releases.
Sorry if this is a dumb question - but how do I apply multiple labels to an email in Inbox? This is something I've been doing for years in Gmail and I miss the ability to do it. I have a huge archive of emails which I can access through a number of different labels.
You can try snoozing them until "Someday". It places the item on the "snoozed" list but you don't have to define a specific time for it to resurface. Then you can go over the list whenever you want to deal with it.
One issue, one question:  Issue: When editing a message, it keeps jumping the the bottom. Click in to first sentence and the screen jumps to the last.  Question: Will inbox or gmail ever allow selecting a contact group when composing an email? 
I snooze so many of my messages, that would break my Inbox flow.
Why inbox have no support for invite.ics?  It is needed for who want to use inbox with business.  The event is added to google calendar, but the email itself is shown empty on the app on browser and mobile
A lot of things we get, we don't need to archive.  Do we really need four or five year old Black Friday email adverts clogging up our inbox?  Yeah, I know there's a metric ton of space, but do we REALLY need to save that?  SERIOUSLY?
I cannot stress enough how important it is for you guys to start supporting media queries. The mobile landscape is changing and whilst you guys have developed a fantastic app - it's imperative that users are given the opportunity to receive emails which are mobile friendly. Supporting media queries is the first step towards that.  P.S. If you do, I'll buy you a beer!
As a colourblind user - please don't do this!
Are there any plans on bringing 3rd party accounts support to inbox? 
Any plans on having a 'seen' feature?   That would make work interesting..
[deleted]
There is or was a Gmail labs feature for this - your first suggestion is how that works. 
I really like the "canned response" google labs feature when using a desktop browser. Is there any chance of this or something similar being implemented into the gmail android app?
But that's why Inbox has the bundles. Search through just the Purchases for Old Navy. I mean, that should solve that, right?
Yes, we are actively working on this right now, and you should see it in the app within the next few months.
Can I have a job?
How do you anticipate this trend of exposing images and calls-to-action before opening to continue? I love that these are visible before clicking into emails.  Do you anticipate enabling organizations to take advantage of that new visibility in any way? Will a marketer be able to design for that space? 
So where do I send my resume?
Really though. I've used undo send in gmail for the last... since forever. I love that feature.
[deleted]
[deleted]
All actions are not created equal ;)
Is there a chance that I will be able to use Outlook or Exchange with Inbox? I want to use it sooooo bad 
[deleted]
Howdy guys. Inbox by Gmail doesn't support calendar invites from Microsoft Outlook. The emails just come through as walls of text all mashed together. There's no Yes, No, Maybe, button as invites from Google Calendar display. That's kind of disappointing seeing as old school Gmail supports invites from these clients. When will Inbox gain this functionality?
Is there a way to view only the **active** reminders (i.e. those not marked as done)?
I miss this feature too!  We just werent able to get to this in time for launch.
I need them to answer this one
[deleted]
Do you plan to add media-query support?
Just to clarify, when you say improved HTML rendering are you talking about the entire webpage or just message contents?  Edit: Understand the question now. Inbox and Gmail use the same HTML sanitizer and media queries etc. arent supported. This is one of our top feature requests from developers though and were looking into adding it. 
First of all, just wanted to say that I really like inbox and have for the most part replaced most of my gmail usage. However, there are still some things in Inbox which I think can be improved.  1) Integration into Google Keep would be really great. There seems to be a lot of overlap between Keep and Reminders in Inbox. Is there plans in the future to integrate these somehow?  2) Mapping Inbox filters to Gmail filters better. In Gmail, I used to have separate filters for finance, receipts, etc. Inbox has native filters for each of these. When I switched over from Inbox, all my native filters transferred as well which meant I had to manually move my emails out of old filters into the new ones on Inbox. Now my Inbox and Gmail do not map at all. Inbox sorts things under Finance where Gmail sorts it under Updates. It's really confusing since Inbox also has a filter for updates.  3) It's not entirely clear what happens to my emails in Gmail when I sort them as done in Inbox. Do they just get sorted under their respective Gmail filter? They disappear from my Gmail inbox, but I can't properly sort them out in Gmail without messing up Inbox.  4) Are there plans to be able to have better control over how the default filters operate? For example, if I wanted all emails from my work email to go into updates, could I add a filter within the updates filter do this similar to Gmail? I know there is the option to "filter other emails like this", but when I check that I have no idea what metric it is filtering them by.  5) This is kind of nitpicky, but when Snoozing something to a later time/date of your choice, I feel the windows open in the wrong order. There is an initial month window which lets you pick the day, then you click done and there is another window to Pick date and time. I feel this second window should be the initial window. Then the user can pick to change the date or time.
When will named locations actually be saved?
What was one major challenge you all faced while building this product?
I've been using Inbox for a while, and I've notice that none of the airline itinerary emails that I *think* should automatically set up events are not triggering.  Any chance to have a way to submit examples so that the processing can be a bit smarter?
Will it support group email? I really hate that Gmail for Android doesn't support groups. I just want to define a group of, say, 10 people and then type into the TO: field BakerProject and have it automatically fill in their addresses for me. Yes, I know Gmail can send to multiple people, but I have to type in at least the first few characters of their email before I can select it, but that still doesn't solve the problem of having to remember everyone who should get the mail. 
[deleted]
I use Google Apps for my personal/primary and I have always been VERY frustrated with Google for not releasing all the features that regular @gmail.com users have. One of the biggest ones (besides Inbox) is Google Now. I refuse to buy anymore Android products such as the Moto 360 that I want so bad only because Google Now is the main feature and all I get is bloody traffic updates and weather. That's it! Why is it so hard to release package tracking and all the other awesome features regular users have?!  |  EDIT: It seems people are getting confused about Apps users not having GNow. We do have access to GNow but **not all the features** like regular users have, that's my frustration. 
Why can't I add my exchange account? 
IIRC there was some performance issue in Firefox they noticed, that's the only bug I've heard of. 
My guess is that it would be based off the Gmail labs feature, which just delays the sending of the message so that you can recall it if you want. 
Copying Jason's answer to a similar question above:  We just added support for other mail systems in the Gmail app on Android, so this is definitely something were interested in! Ultimately we want Inbox to be able to manage all sorts of content from other sources, but we dont have concrete plans to announce at this time.
A few weeks ago people were talking about inbox, I kept on asking for invites but people were out of them.  So I did what someone told me to do - ask the inbox team directly.   You guys took your fucking sweet ass time with the invite, it came in only about a week after my request, if I recall correctly. I was busy with work, swiped the message for later reading, and 2 weeks or so (???) after, I totally forgot about it until I saw this post.  I mean, what the fuck is up with the invite system? I already downloaded the inbox app, the least you could do is allow me to use it. Shit.   
Looking forward to having a nice tablet interface!
Would it be possible to add in a functionality for reminders to sync up with the calendar?
Where's my invite? 
I love the app. It makes it so much easier to manage my mail. But most of my workflow is through my iPhone, and badge notifications don't seem to work. Is there any plan to fix badge notifications on iOS? 
[deleted]
Will the gmail web app be getting a material design facelift?
How do you personally use Inbox's pinned feature? I'm trying to find a use case for when I would use it. It's not part of my flow at the moment.  Also on the web app and iOS app, why is hyperlink not one of the top level buttons to hit? I'm sure you guys have data on where most people click that led you to having "attach" and "format" be the main buttons. I know that adding a hyperlink is technically formatting that text so it makes sense to be in that action menu but I use hyperlink so much that it bothered me that I have to click twice. I'm probably not a normal use case though (maybe).  Thanks for everything you guys do. Loving the app. Super slick code, transitions, and UI. Keep up the great work!
In the end, it doesn't matter. But if you guys want to have less server space bloat for things like my Twitch notifications, it might not be a bad idea
I use Google Apps for my personal/primary and I have always been VERY frustrated with Google for not releasing all the features that regular @gmail.com users have. One of the biggest ones (besides Inbox) is Google Now. I refuse to buy anymore Android products such as the Moto 360 that I want so bad only because Google Now is the main feature and all I get is bloody traffic updates and weather. That's it! Why is it so hard to release package tracking and all the other awesome features regular users have?!
You fool! One day your life and the lives of everyone you hold dear could teeter on the brink of destruction, cascading toward a chasm of doom, with redemption dependent solely on the critical information held within that seemingly innocent promo email! My God, man, THINK! 
[deleted]
We love this feature in Gmail, and its something wed like to get into Inbox as well (and one of the many things that didnt make it in time for our launch).
[deleted]
We're talking about the messagethe actual email itself. Designers and developers send what is essentially a one-page website to Gmail, including &lt;head&gt; &lt;style&gt; and &lt;body&gt; tags. Gmail removes the &lt;style&gt; block from the &lt;head&gt;, making any formatting disappear. This also prevents @media queries and responsive email from working, and makes life hard for everyone. 
We experimented with multi-inclusion in bundles in the inbox early on and it turns out that it just doesnt work very well. Imagine that you get a single new email and it matches the rules for 5 bundles. All five bundles would jump to the top of the inbox but they would all include the same message!  Grouping and multi-inclusion just arent a great mix.  We know that there are people who are used to applying multiple, non-bundled labels to the same message, though, and its something that we want to be really thoughtful about.   Bundles are so much more powerful than labels, so we hope that our more advanced label users dive in and see what they can do with bundling.  The ability to throttle a bundle so that it only shows up once a day or once a week, the ability to mark a whole bundle as done with a single swipe, and the ability to see a bundle right in your inbox while you are on your phone are all extremely useful features that just werent possible with labels.
[deleted]
That is a very good point!
I know they don't want to copy Mailbox, but short slide right to archive and long slide right to delete has always worked very well for me. Then swipe left remains for snooze.
Any chance of Inbox Web getting Google Bar/App Launcher "add a shortcut" integration so we can jump to it directly from Google.com?
Came here to ask this.  Unfortunately, unsatisfactory answer.  Oh well.
[deleted]
Thanks for clarifying, edited my post. 
Do you know if other Google web apps like Google Calendar will be updated with Material Design? What about Outlook, Yahoo Mail, Exchange, etc.? Will they work with Inbox in the future?
For me, it would be perfect if the default action was "Done" in most places, but "Delete" in Promos, Social, and Updates - I never, ever need to refer back to old promo emails, Google Calendar reminders or notifications that someone liked a comment. Everything else can be archived without a problem.
Thanks for doing this AMA.  Inbox is fantastic if a bit redundant. Why wasn't it just an update to Gmail? Google now has 3 email apps if you include the "Mail" app for android. Wouldn't it be more prudent to combine them into just one?
Imagine, people use their email accounts in different ways than you do.  It's astonishing, eh?
As you can probably imagine, the design team in particular misses the ability to paste in images into emails too!  This just didnt make it in before launch. 
Is there any chance Inbox will get plain text support, at least on mobile? I use email to communicate on mailing lists, and sending HTML messages is frowned upon, so I can't use inbox for that. I'd very much like to use inbox for all my email on mobile, but this is kind of a blocker issue.  Thanks!
I want items in "Someday" to resurface themselves, well...someday. Let Google choose a day sometime in the future I don't have much stuff scheduled for, or randomly....Just have it ping me periodically so I don't forget about the stuff I've "snoozed" to Someday. Because "snooze" implies it's going to start bugging you again sometime, right?
First and foremost, our intention isnt to push users to use Chrome over any other browser. Were working as fast as we can on enabling all other browsers as soon as possible.  When Inbox was in early development, the product and UX teams were iterating rapidly on the features and overall visual design. We would receive new mocks several times a day on some features and be expected to build them ASAP in order to get feedback and iterate. We were able to move at a phenomenal speed by writing code that worked just in Chrome and ignoring other browsers. We didnt purposefully break other browsers, but figured it wasnt worth writing code that worked everywhere when there was a high probability that the design or behavior would change tomorrow. As a result, there are a handful of features that are broken due to various browsers bugs were just now realizing ([heres one example](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=685445) that breaks inline image attachments and plus-mentions in Firefox).  Why Chrome instead of any other browser? Most of the Inbox team, and most Googlers in general, use Chrome as their primary browser at work and home. Inbox also does some crazy stuff with javascript and CSS that really push browsers to their limits. We were able to work directly with the Chrome team to improve how the browser does things like rendering animations. (Our animations infrastructure is crazy complicated and worthy of its own AMA.) Were now talking with Apple and Mozilla about how to optimize our animations, both through improvements on our side and improvements in their respective browsers, but we couldnt do this before we launched publicly.  Finally, we realize many of our early adopters are likely using Chrome, so we figured it would be ok to have a small period where were Chrome-only and then sprint to enable other browsers as quickly as possible.  
[deleted]
nice! 7am is too early for me to do something in the morning
[deleted]
That would actually mean that there could be a good guide on how someone creates such kind of attachments programmatically in an Android app!
Is there a way to get Google to develop a contact management system that works better with Inbox?
&gt; PS: Can you get an invite? Yes! From 10am-12 noon PST today anyone who requests an invite by emailing inbox@google.com using an @gmail.com email address will get one by the end of the day.  I own and manage my own domain but host my email services through Gmail... can I get an Inbox invite too?
[deleted]
I absolutely love Inbox! Congrats to the team!  Quick question: Is there a reason why reminders cannot be bundled like emails? I would like to use Inbox as my todo app, but I have multiple todo lists that must be separated.
I've found Gmail app to be more appealing, functional and easier to use. At least, that's what I have thought over the last couple years. You guys say Inbox is a more focused Gmail and focuses on what really matters to me, but Gmail has all the features I need. What separates Inbox from Gmail to make it better?  I'm not trying to pry or have you sell me on it, I just know the functions of Gmail make things really easy and am confused why Inbox is another app.
Somewhere on Twitter they said they were going to have an iPad native interface, not just a 2x iPhone interface.
I can't search through hangout logs in Inbox and have to resort to using gmail (which whines and tells me to use inbox). Is there another way to search hangout logs besides gmail, or are you going to add hangout log searching to inbox?
This is probably a dumb question, but when will we be able to use "@inbox.com" instead of "@gmail.com"?
Undo send is something I cherish on the android mail app, would love to see it on inbox!
Being the klutz that I am, the Undo Send has saved me many a time. Please inform your boss that I told him to give you a raise.
Will there be an API for Inbox?
The issue is, though, that bundles aren't necessarily more powerful. I have set up a number of filters and labels that keep me organised; a single email may have six or seven labels. The Inbox bundling approach really doesn't help me much.
or maybe "Old Navy -promo -discount -sale" but I just unsuscribe from almost every promo mail I recieve
What's your favorite breakfast?
Will it be possible to resize new message window in browser? 
Is there any way to change the settings so that "pinned" items don't appear in the inbox? When I've pinned an item, I've addressed it and don't need it in the inbox, but I don't want to have to remove pins to get a clean and completely clear inbox.
Will I ever get used to using it?  It's a lot different than gmail, and I find myself missing/not seeing emails as they come in.  I keep telling myself that I'll get used to it, but it's been a while now, and it still feels weird.  I also don't like how the back button my mouse doesn't do what I expect it to (since the page doesn't change when I click into a message).  I think it's pretty, and I like some of the features, but it's definitely best suited for the workplace.  I don't think it works well with the way I use emails.
I work with rebra, thanks a lot for answering this. Do you know if there are any public guidelines for the sanitizer you mention, or if there is any way to make such guidelines available to companies that work with html email development?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Given that they're aimed at fundamentally different audiences (casual vs core/power), do you think it's realistic that a single unified product will address both sets of needs? 
can you create a way to easily sweep reminders? i have daily recurring reminders that date back to a long time ago and they have flooded my inbox
Why does snoozing automatically pin stuff? Often it's just something I don't want to see for a while but that also isn't important. 
I get that you're trying to go for a clean looking interface. Why did you choose to keep the left side bar hidden? Would you consider the option of pinning it down? Mousing over the button in the top corner every time I want to see my folders is getting very annoying.
Why you chose to launch Inbox instead of modifying Gmail and adding features to it or maybe making a full rework ?
is there any ongoing effort to try and better sync up gmail / gapps mail?  Google Glass, Google Now, and now Inbox all suffer due to discrepancies and challenges with supporting Google Apps mail, making me begin to regret using it, because convincing all my contacts to update my email address and changing my workflow isn't really in the cards for me.
As a developer I've viewed Gmail as the IE6 of the email client world. All my issues that I've had with emails has been with gmail because of weird quarks.   My question is: When will gmail support basic things like CSS in the &lt;head&gt; tag or media queries? Apples mail clients are basically current with browsers now, why can't gmail?   Email development is stuck in the past using tables and inline CSS. I think it's time for google to actually innovate here.
[deleted]
Why do you guys keeping marking mail as important for me?  Does google keep this information even if I remove the marker? Also, does google collect more/different information from email marked as important?
We dont have plans for a mobile browser version right now. Well definitely support other desktop browsers though, were working on that right now.
When I mark an item as "Done" (Checkmark), does that also mark it read?  If not, how can I accomplish this?
Will you be re-adding the ability to drag and drop files into an email? I miss that functionality the most for attaching files.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Wasn't Inbox two years in development? If so, how come certain basic features - like the one discussed - failed to make the first release?  Genuine question.
[deleted]
Cross browser support, IMO, should have been shipped no matter what. [Consider this tweet.](https://twitter.com/toddmparker/status/525334636340445184)
Are you planning to improve the android wear implementation of inbox? For instance, being able to read an entire email on the watch was a great feature in the gmail app, and switching to inbox meant that I lost that feature. It is bothering me enough that I am considering going back to gmail, but the snooze function is so amazing that I will stick with inbox and hope you guys will change it.  Also on wear, it would be fantastic to be able to separate emails, rather than just receive a notification that you have these 4 emails with these titles.  As a final thought, inbox is a great idea, and it revolutionized how I think of emails a bit. So thank you.
Right. I've sent exactly this scenario as a feature request via the Send feedback tool, as when I saw the "someday" option I had already assumed that's how it worked, and was disappointed to discover not. It only makes sense. Hope it's in the works. 
Thank you for answering this. I struggled to adjust to bundles when I came over from Gmail. Could you explain more about bundles in the help docs or the walkthrough?
Are you going to allow other email sites such as yahoo to be compatible with the inbox app?
Awesome news. #PraiseDuarte
Google Inbox is, in every use case I can imagine, worse than existing apps.  Is this a concerted effort to get people to stop using Gmail?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Any chance you could integrate Google Translate into inbox? 
Are you going to implement a quick delete button anytime soon? It's a bit frustrating compared to Gmail, where it's just one tap away.
The only thing that bothers me (and several other people I've talked to) about Inbox right now is that the hangouts widget doesn't have a people view tab like the Gmail version. Will this be added soon? 
[deleted]
Any chance the refresh button in gmail will be in Inbox too?  &gt; For me pressing the refresh button manually works for now in Gmail. Also the Gmail tab shows unread messages count which is also useful to me. &gt; This delay is only for external POP emails and not something sent directly to gmail. &gt; If the external POP email has an option to forward emails that would also resolve my problem. But that is not something that I can do right now.  http://www.reddit.com/r/google/comments/2m6w4e/is_there_a_way_to_refresh_the_inbox_as_there_is/cm2amdv
[deleted]
Hey there,  I'm taking a user interface design, evaluation and implementation course. I was wondering if you have applied principles from Norman's "The Design of Everyday Things" book actively/specifically while making Inbox, or any other HCI-oriented resources?  Thanks! I look forward to the development of Inbox and Gmail!
I imagine if there are a large number of Custom Snoozes, that would influence design.
Interesting,  FWIW, I use Gmail a lot like a personal archive, where I save articles and links for later retrieval.  
I guess it's a question of ease-of-use vs. control of features. Reminds me a bit of Apple vs Android. Inbox, like Apple, takes away some of the control in favor of a very streamlined experience, while Android, like gmail, offers more control with a less streamlined experience. Depends on what's important to you. (My analogy isn't perfect because I like Inbox but use an Android phone, but I think it gets the point across.)  Either way, since switching to Inbox I've unsubscribed from most of the promo emails I used to get that I just deleted instead of unsubscribing from before I switched from gmail. They aren't much of an issue now.
Are there any plans to make it easier to 'delete' emails from the mobile app? Currently in Inbox, it is a 2-step process, while I can directly do it from the notifications in Gmail. 
I shouldn't have to specifically tailor my search query just so the crap doesn't show up. I should be able to search for &lt;bank&gt; or &lt;charity&gt; and be able to find what I'm looking for in the first 10-20 emails, but I can't do that if the weekly &amp; monthly notification emails were never deleted.
Are you guys ever going to replace Gmail with Inbox? If so or not, why? 
I would love to be able to cut down on some of the whitespace in the desktop app. Right now I can zoom out and shrink the window, but I'd really like some native customization there. Any idea if that's in the pipeline?
as always, [relevant xkcd](http://xkcd.com/1068/)
I shouldn't have to specifically tailor my search query just so the crap doesn't show up. I should be able to search for &lt;bank&gt; or &lt;charity&gt; and be able to find what I'm looking for in the first 10-20 emails, but I can't do that if the weekly &amp; monthly notification emails were never deleted.
We created Inbox because the world has changed significantly since we built Gmail.  We built Inbox as a separate product because we didnt feel like we could make big changes to the way that email is used today by just adding more features on to Gmail.  We needed to start from scratch to build a tool that really helps you stay on top of your life.  Reminders started as a feature in Google Now, and with Inbox we are taking a big step in the direction of making Reminders work as a single system across multiple Google apps to help you remember the things you need to do.  
[I found several naked people on google maps street view that aren't blurred out.](http://imgur.com/a/uGJOA)  Who should I tell about that?
What's with the invite thing?
Thanks! Looking forward to a different notification sound. The current tri-tone sound is easily confused with other app notifications on my iPhone.  I would like a unique sound so I am able to differentiate notifications.   Excellent product! Great job guys!
[deleted]
[deleted]
Inbox was in development well before Mailbox launched.  Both apps share a similar basic philosophy that your Inbox is really a to-do list.  Both apps allow users to snooze messages, which is a great feature that has been available in Gmail via various 3rd party extensions for years.  Thats really where the similarities end.  Inbox takes a lot of the work out of managing your life by automatically grouping related messages into bundles and by pulling out the information that matters most into highlights. Inbox allows you to create your own reminders, which really allows it to function as a true to-do list that reflects your own priorities, and offers assists to help you get things done. Inbox goes a lot farther into personal assistant territory and helps you stay on top of the things that matter.  We see Inbox as a tool for managing your life, not just your mail. Thats the biggest difference.
Have you thought about enabling the iOS "right swipe from left edge" action to bring up the menu?
Soon! Were actively working on tablet support now.
Inbox will import your filters and labels and use them automatically, and apply it's own magic on top of that.
When Inbox will be available for me?  -Google Apps user   (I have a couple of invites)
How many people are actively working on the project and how long has it taken you to get this far? 
[deleted]
We designed inbox as a separate product, and think its best to just dive in and only use Inbox rather than toggle back and forth between Inbox and Gmail.  We dont have any plans to add new features to Inbox that cross over to Gmail.
[deleted]
Maybe have a bin pop up on the side as well as it turning red.
what's with the invite thing?
Out of interest, /u/inboxrulz , what mobile e-mail app do you use to send in plain text?
Gmail doesn't hard delete right away.
[deleted]
Yeah there is no widget, I have to use the Gmail one which, of course, won't run Inbox!  Hopefully the Inbox team will add one. :)
Why aren't photos sent as attachments displayed in Inbox messages when the same ones display just fine in the normal Gmail app?
[deleted]
unfortunately there still isn't push capabilities in gmail for other accounts which I hope to see in an update to gmail as well as inbox.
When I mark something done could you also have it marked as read? Having unread "done" emails is driving me nuts.
Plebs, I want mine to be set for 6am!
Are there any plans to integrate chat logs (former Google Talk, Google Hangouts) into the Inbox app?
You know Gmail already deletes any mail put in the spam folder after 30 days? In addition any mail in there does not count toward your storage quota, so there's no point to deleting it right away.
Is there any future on inbox and gmail being one app? Or is this a completely different team/project. 
Inbox was already an android app since day 1. Unless I am misunderstanding you.
Wasn't Calendar for Android getting a material update? I thought I heard it was.
We have a formal QA process, and were also relying on Googlers to use it internally and report any issues they find.   For example, Inbox has some animations that jump in Safari and were working to fix that before releasing Safari support for everyone.
Drive and gmail sort of go hand in hand for a lot of people, at least from what I've observed. So it will make a change to Inbox even easier if it has Drive integration.
[deleted]
Any possibility of adding the ability to change themes?
why do you hate firefox?
Copying Jason's answer to a similar question here:  We think its important to have a non-destructive dismiss action so that you can swipe away both email that you might need to refer to one day as well as email that you dont need to save without having to think about it too much. But, weve heard the feedback that some users want it to be easier to delete and were exploring different options.
They've answered that already.  In short, no.  In long term, maybe - they said they're going to let users decide that kind of thing given which is more popular.
Why do you only support Webkit based browsers? 
Is it possible that I can get a invite for Inbox, Inbox team? :)
It's a Google thing.  They've been doing this for ages.  It's not an INbox thing.
I wish that was the default too, but you can click a vertical bar with three dots in the upper right hand corner of the image that has two options.  "Remove" or "send as attachment".  So you can do it, it's just not the default.
Copying an answer to a similar question above: Supporting these accounts comes with other demands and we're working hard on addressing them so we can get Inbox to Google Apps users.  We were pleasantly surprised to see how open-minded Inbox users are to making big changes to their work email workflow, and the high demand for Inbox on Google Apps accounts has already caused us to speed up our efforts to bring Inbox to all of you.  Hang tight!
[deleted]
[deleted]
Why not do it the same way Google Keep does? The defaults are available but so is the ability to pick a custom time.
Is there going to be a "labs" for Inbox?   One of my favorites comes from there on Gmail - "Send and archive".  For here, I guess "send and done".
The effort put into finding something in a messy room vs. keeping a room clean every week is nonexistent. I don't unsubscribe from the emails because the point of a notification is to receive the information then discard it.
This is because Google Apps users are business users and changing stuff up on businesses is a different can of worms than changing the layout on grandma's inbox or whatever.  
Copying Jason's answer to a similar question: We just added support for other mail systems in the Gmail app on Android, so this is definitely something were interested in!  Ultimately we want Inbox to be able to manage all sorts of content from other sources, but we dont have concrete plans to announce at this time. 
[deleted]
Hi,  I have started to use inbox a lot, and I have really enjoyed the new workflow I have with my e-mail.  However, one thing that has stung me three times already is that the default "reply" when quick-replying via the textbox below an e-mail is a "reply-all". Is there a way to change that?  Also, are there plans to integrate any of the Google Labs extras that are in Gmail into Inbox?
Copying my answer to a similar question above: Supporting these accounts comes with other demands and we're working hard on addressing them so we can get Inbox to Google Apps users.  We were pleasantly surprised to see how open-minded Inbox users are to making big changes to their work email workflow, and the high demand for Inbox on Google Apps accounts has already caused us to speed up our efforts to bring Inbox to all of you.  Hang tight!
They are not aimed at fundamentally different audiences.  Both Gmail and Inbox are designed to scale from low volume to high volume users.
Are there any differences between Inbox and Gmail with regards to user privacy?  Are there any differences between Inbox and Gmail with regards to user data ownership?
Are there plans to add drag-and-drop attachments to Inbox?
When we will be able to use inbox from other browsers?
Clicking the pin shows only pinned items, so the default view should hide them - maybe show a count for how many items you have pinned.
Wow Don't know how I missed that. How did you implement Google's version of imap (e.i tags vs folders) onto other services?
Have you considered giving users control over what the swipes do?   The Mailbox app recently added this and I love using it. For example, I set it up so a short swipe to the left snoozes the email until tomorrow (very handy for procrastinators!)  My apologies if this question was asked elsewhere.
Thanks for the reply. Sorry for being snarky. I just love my Mailbox. I just requested an invite though. I'll try out Inbox for a few days. 
Not displaying labeled messages in inbox as unread?
Is there any plans to allow custom icons for bundles? Or at least expand the current line up of icons?
We are interested in supporting media queries but we need to make sure we do it right.  Our changes last year to show images by default in Gmail last year were similar: there was a ton of complicated security work that had to happen behind the scenes before we could make this seemingly simple feature safe for the whole world. You can read about that launch here: http://goo.gl/pJavzw 
[deleted]
When you say "working on it"  what does that entail?   Like..  What goes on behind the scenes of making an app/Google thing?   Not trying to be an ass,  I'm just curious. 
Pretty simple.  It's a Google product.  Gonna work with their own browser first.  Shrug.
Regarding the offline experience, why does the Inbox app still start with a blank loading screen and a spinner every time? This is as opposed to something like iOS Mail.app, which loads the cached message list first.
You're speaking of google business apps right? I have GNow enabled for the organization if I'm not mistaken. 
Hey!  Thanks for the AMA!  I'm loving the app right now.  A few quick questions for me I guess:  * edit - saw the other responses to a delete button.  * PLEASE implement swipe back from left edge on iOS app!  It's frustrating when most other apps support it and then I keep mistakenly archiving an email.  * Not a question since I saw it answered but eagerly anticipating the iPad app!  Thanks for everything!
Its still early days, so we have really exciting plans for Inbox: were starting with email, but ultimately our goal is to build a tool to manage all of the things you need to get back to in your life.  Email is a great place to start because it contains lots of things that you need to get back to already.  So, of course, were not ready to share many of the coolest things that were working on because theyre still in development.  At the same time, there are a lot of things that Gmail already does that we know that we need to pull in to Inbox before we open Inbox to everyone.  I cant give all of them away but a few that I can mention are undo send, cross-browser support, and tablet support.  Be sure to submit any feature requests through the app (left nav -&gt; Help &amp; Feedback -&gt; Send feedback). We pay close attention to each piece of feedback we receive.
Any chance for adding a delete button without having to click the menu?  The done and snooze buttons are great because it allows actions with one click, but I get tons of emails I don't even want to archive and just want to delete. It would be nice to have that as a 1 click option as well.  *Update. After searching this post, I see that this question has already been asked/answered, but i'm going to leave the question here as it's my one problem with the app/product.
Will there finally be a sorting feature? 
I tried using Inbox for a week and really loved the innovation but it's just not practical for the way I personally use email. My question: are there any plans to introduce a Snooze feature into Gmail? This is the only reason I use Mailbox instead of Gmail on Android.
It's just displaying the image I'm talking about, not sending it. It displays in Gmail but not in Inbox.
Is it true Gmail was some guy's side project?  How did Inbox come about?  Who had the idea and what was the main goal? 
I would at least like the option to switch the swipe action to Trash instead of Done. I'll still use both features, but I find that I want to delete way more than I want to mark as Done.
You say that it's important to archive rather than delete, but why can't we just have an setting to select it like the Gmail app has?  It's a win-win. Or even a delete in the toolbar at least.
Are there any plans to add language based filtering/bundling?  I get a lot of Spanish messages (mostly spam).  It would be amazing to be able to bundle by language.
You're not being punished for giving them money. They never promised you Inbox.  Even if they gave you this feature with a caveat, business users would still file a ton of bug reports against something that's not functionally complete. Even the personal version is invite only.
Ha, so I guess you're leading the team that removed the month view from the new calendar update... I kinda see where you were going with that, but I kinda miss having a larger overview and context...   Still you've made up with it with the ease of use and instant visibility of accent colors. I love the work your team has done so far, keep it up! 
When we first launched the tabbed Inbox in Gmail, sure as with any big change to email, there was some concern from advertisers, but the direct marketing community realized pretty quickly the benefits as well. For advertisers, each type of mail now has its own dedicated place in the inbox, where its a first-class citizen - less likely to be considered intrusive or cluttering, and not in competition with other types of mail. Bundling promotions together is kind of like a DVR: it allows users to read promotions on their own schedule. Thats good for everyone.
When will inbox work with "corporate emails" that are set up with gmail (not a personal gmail account)?
I assume plans for an Android widget are in the works? One of the big reasons I still end up using the Gmail app sometimes is because I can scroll through my messages from the home screen. 
Came here to ask this.  Well, actually, my question was going to be more along the lines of "why does it seem like Google Apps users always get shafted on the coolest new features of google's services? (like, say, automatic package tracking via Google Now)"
Is this question from 2004?
Hey, how is colorblind mode on Lollipop working? Or do you have Lollipop yet? 
Me. You should tell me about that.   
I want to use labels, but I also want to group all unread messages at the top. Why can't I do this?
Along those lines, I use my labels as a filing system so I have have them labeled in my inbox and then move them to the proper folder when I'm done. Are there any plans to add customizability for the swipe -&gt; done for filing in specific folders rather than just going to the archive?
If a bundle only has one email in it you have to waste another click to open that message. For bundles that presently only have one message will you default it to open that particular message?  Its been driving me crazy!
A few design questions:  * Tangentially to Inbox: is there a material design overhaul planned for Calendar?  * Even more tangentially: is there one planned for News? (My god, it's been over a decade)  * Way out there: What about the Search product itself? See this article, which got some exposure yesterday: https://dribbble.com/shots/1790652-Google-Material-exploration?list=users&amp;offset=0  It took some getting used to, but Inbox has been great so far. Thanks for your good work.
I look forward to improved snoozing! I'd appreciate a "Snooze until the weekend" more than anything as that's when I handle the smaller emails that tend to stack up.
Absolutely!
1. Why doesn't spam has a "Clear all" option? One would think that would be the first thing to have a "clear all".  2. Deleting any mail is now a three click operation instead of 2 or 1 in GMail. :( Any plans on making it easier?
Because you are paying, there are stricter demands on services, like uptime.  Because Google Inbox is super new, it might completely go down for an hour or a day or whatever.  People who pay $ for a service have a tendency to get very agitated when they don't get what they want :)
We werent able to get to this in time for launch, but we are looking into it.  
Im really interested in the technology you guys used - specifically writing the core modules in java and then using tools to convert those into native objective-c or javascript libraries.  Can you talk a little bit about that process and also what pitfalls you encountered?    If I was thinking of suggesting these tools to use at work/personal projects would you say they are production ready or is there still a fair amount of troubleshooting required.  Thanks!
&gt; You shouldn't. I feel like this app works best for parole with unorganized cluttered emails  FYI nifty new feature.  google "my purchases" when logged in to chrome.
I'd say that's a relatively minor feature, not something that would make waves... those things just often don't make the cut for a first release.
This excites me so much. That's the only thing holding me back from using Inbox on my phone - I've already transitioned on my tablet and PC. Thanks!
Could still take a while. 
Overall, everyone on the team went through the standard Google interviewing process before joining the company. The same team people who built Gmail are behind the creation Inbox.    Many teams at Google are cross-disciplinary, and the same collaboration skills are important on all of our teams, across disciplines and across offices around the world.  For example, the core Inbox team includes members in 5 different Google offices, and we collaborate with a number of other teams across all of Google.  Our team is really close-knit. As an engineer, I work very closely with folks like Vijay and Jason when building new features.
Awesome, thank you. I look forward to it becoming available for the team!
Is "Inbox" supposed to be a successor to "Gmail". Do you see them competing between each other?
It only works on a per tab basis, though.  1) Go to Inbox, receive message that it is Chrome only  2) Switch user agent to Chrome and reload  3) Close tab, open a new tab, go to Inbox  4) Receive same error message
I currently use Mailbox, but tried Inbox for about 10 days.  One of the features that I sorely missed was the ability to automatically tag senders for deletion or auto-delaying their emails into the future (I like reviewing certain emails at about 8pm every day, for example).  Are these auto-filtering/action types under development or consideration at all?  Thanks!
Snoozing is a major function to time parse emails - especially for work. Boomerang does it, but it's kinda pricy for us small business guys. I've been using FollowUpThen - which has awesome support (hey Reilly) and is much more reasonable. Would be great to get something native. But for now, for Apps users for just time shifting - FUT is pretty great (I'm a user, in no way associated with the firm)
this is just it my normal personal account is rarely used except by a few mailing lists.  my apps account is full of activity and chaos.
I was the exact same way.  I backed up all my filters, deleted them, and tried out Inbox.  So far, I like the change.
Will Inbox learn when I remove emails from folders? I'm not quite at the level of organization I had with Gmail and it keeps putting uninteresting emails in the wrong folder.
When will you implement a sweep to delete vs a sweep to archive ?
I love the reminders overhaul Inbox has brought to the table, but the integration between Inbox and Google Calendar does not seem to work well.  Are there still bugs in this area to be worked out or am I missing something?
Any chance of updating the supported devices?  I've six Android devices in my household, ranging from 2.0 to 4.2.something, and not one of them willdo anything but display a "you're not compatible" message when I try to install the thing. Yes, I do have an invite.
Awesome! Thanks for answering!   That's really interesting that this project was accomplished using a distributive team! This is part of what I'm studying. I know coordination across time zones can often be difficult.   I thought a perfect solution to that was Wave, but, unfortunately, the general public didn't catch on.   Thanks again for the answer!
I think the thing that would be most helpful for me in this regard would be able to give bundles lifespans. If I had a bundle for things like "Live now on Youtube/Twitch/etc" I don't need those things in a week and they are going to clutter up my search results. If I could say "auto-delete all archived emails from this bundle older than 1 week" it would be perfect.
When will Inbox be supported in browsers other than Chrome?
I can't speek for them but probably the same thing as when gmail was invite only. To control the number of users while kinks were worked out with bugs and scaling.
Inbox is obviously quite different to most other email interfaces. What kind of research did you do to come up with the new ideas in Inbox?
Will Inbox have support for other email addresses (other than gmail or Google email accounts)?
Hey, thanks for doing this Iama ! I sent an invitation request email to inbox@gmail.com from my Gmail account and got a 'delivery failure' message because the account 'does not exist'. Does the email need to be sent through a browser? I am using the Gmail app on my phone. 
Inbox gives you new superpowers and makes it much easier to stay on top of your life.  If you are an absolute Gmail master and an incredibly organized person we can see why you would want to stick with Gmail for now because it is working for you.  For everybody else, though, for the vast majority of us that could use a little help, Inbox was designed to help you get back to the things that matter.  Reminders in the inbox are incredibly useful to help you remember your to-dos.  Snooze lets you deal with messages and reminders at the right time (or the right place!).  Highlights let you get to the good stuff quickly.  Bundles keep you organized without requiring you to do any work.  If youd like to get more done and to spend less time and effort managing your email, you might want to give Inbox a try.
Does the web version of Inbox use Polymer and web components ?
Any likelihood of getting a windows phone app at some point? I switched from android after several handsets, to a Nokia 1520 on 8.1, but google app support is exceptionally limited for windows.   Please?   
Are there any plans to allow Inbox to work online even if you don't have a iOS/Android phone?
There are third party resources that try to do this (Litmus, Campaign Monitor, etc.) but an official source of documentation from Gmail (and notice about upcoming changes) would be a huge help. 
Yes ;)
I agree as well. I for example get a lot of Promotion emails which are daily. And i am sure that i will not need them in the long term, in fact most of them are not even valid more than a couple of days. So a simpler way to delete them while i go through them would be amazing. I would totally love it if the swipe can be configured to be deletion instead of mark as done. 
Can you reduce the number of clicks required for choosing a precise time and date value during snooze?  One thing that would be awesome would be to allow a free text entry box under snooze where I can enter things immediately like "2 weeks" (no date required) or "3 months" or "8pm" without having to choose a preset default value (which is not flexible). Let me enter a text string like "2 weeks" or "every 2 weeks" (for recurrence) and Google can interpret "2 weeks" into a date value without me having to click 3 or 4 times.
I second that... I know you Google guys love to archive everything but there really is something yo just simple deletion... Maybe add an option when you select multiple items as well.  Regardless love your work!
Will Grid View for promotional email be supported on Inbox? If so when and will it be GA anytime soon for the regular Gmail? :)
I am constantly marking e-mails read, archiving, and deleting e-mails. I went back to Gmail because it's much easier to do this. I guess I just don't get the whole "Pin", "Snooze", "Mark as Done".  Any plans on making this more straightforward?
I did a mass archiving of 27,900 emails out of my Gmail inbox because of this.  Ha.  Everything is still searchable, so it's something you can easily do with a couple clicks.  (tick the "all" box at top of list, then select all x amount of emails, it'll think for a while and then whammy, all archived) 
I'd really like to see a way to add exceptions to bundles. EG all emails from *@XYZ.com but NOT john.doe@XYZ.com. Any plans for something like that?   (Or am I missing something and that's already possible?)  Thanks for the great work!
Been using Inbox since it came out. Its great. Except twice I've sent an email from the Android app. Hours later sitting at my computer I've noticed I had a draft message. Open it up and it's the email I thought had sent hours ago. I've now started using the Gmail app on Android to send messages.  Any idea why this is happening? Or how it can be fixed? Or how we can notify Google of issues?
Admins can disable or enable features on a case by case and even a user by user basis though.  My suggestion would be to let admins decide whether they want pre-release features available to their users on a case by case basis rather than have it completely unavailable.
The one feature I really miss from Gmail is the ability to use multiple tags. I get why this doesn't work with bundling, but part of the purpose of tagging is for ease of finding things later.  For example, I have a "tax deductible" tag for receipts that I can write off. I still want these in the "Purchases" bundle, but I need the "tax deductible" tag so I can find them at tax time. Any chance this feature comes back?
9am instead of 7, please!
I was wondering, why would you let me click twice to see a message?  I get a new message, I need to click the bundle, and than the message itself. Would it be smarter and quicker to show me the message after once click on the bundle if the bundle currently have one unread message?
Google Now is available for my Apps account.
Suggestion: a per-grouping default swipe action, such as for advertisements (e.g. cyber-Monday deal emails which I want to read once then delete) set the default swipe action to delete.  So if I set one up to group emails from my wife or family, I want the default action to be "done" (archive).  Can be defined when creating or editing a grouping.
Can you make it easier to delete things?  I get a lot of email that I read once and delete, it seems more difficult to delete stuff from Inbox than it  is in regular Gmail.  Other than that, I really like it.
I think these fine-grained swipe actions are too complicated for most people to bother with (they certainly are for me). It's fine for Mailbox, which targets a very specific audience, but won't work for something on Google's scale and reach.
I LOVE Inbox so far, and it's almost totally replaced Gmail for me. I was wondering if you had any plans to implement any of these features?  1. Signatures. I need. 2. Schedule messages to be sent. I had this in Gmail via the Boomerang plug-in, and it would be great if I could avoid switching back an forth to use it. 3. Send event invites via inbox. This is in Gmail and it would be super-handy. 4. Undo send.   Apart from that, it's amazing. I love it and you guys are doing great work.
Inbox -in many respects - is a big re-imagining of the way we email compared to the way we've done it for the past X number of years. Where does the development team see it evolving even further and in other directions?  Thanks again for all the work.
I'm afraid companies purposes clash with gmail purpose: they send us tons of emails and only 1 out of 50 is useful. Keeping all this noise doesn't work for a lot of people
Hi, Is there any ETA on when Inbox will be made available for Google App Users?
Like any product, Inbox went through all sorts of design revisions to get to its current state.  If we look back at our first sketches there are some features, like Highlights, that made it through the development process in essentially the same form, but there are lots of other things that changed significantly!  Many products go through changes and iterations as you start to build them, learn what works, what doesnt, and test it out with different people. You can expect Inbox to continue to change as we roll it out to more users and incorporate your feedback!  Material design was being developed in parallel to Inbox, and Inbox had the privilege of being the first app that was designed using the new, still-in-development guidelines. In fact, we worked really closely with the material design team and some guidelines changed along the way as we applied them to the Inbox app and learned what worked and didnt work. In some cases the guidelines were based on what we had done in Inbox already: the floating action button (FAB) started in Inbox before it became part of the guidelines, for example. So of course material design influenced Inbox, but Inbox also influenced material design.
When will Inbox work with browsers other than Chrome?
Keep in mind that Gmail largely revolutionized how people work with email.  Conversation view by default and the idea of emails having multiple "folders" (in gmail's case, labels) was mind blowing in 2004.  Altering the paradigm of email again just a decade later may be too hard for people to adapt to.
Why is it so damn hard to block a contact?!  ...or am I just stupid?
We werent able to get to this in time for launch, but we are looking into widgets now. Hang tight!
[deleted]
Any chance of allowing an option (maybe in settings somewhere) to have "Done" automatically mark as "Read" as well?  I absolutely love inbox, it's completely changed the way I work with email, but every once in a while I have to use the gmail webapp (work browsers) and its annoying to have a mass of unread emails that aren't important.
Can you enable an option to **not** use the pop up window for composing a reply or new mail?  I absolutely hate not being able to use a full window for writing an e-mail, especially since this is how it will be viewed anyway (at least in a desktop browser or e-mail program).  The tiny mobile-sized window should absolutely not be the default on the browser (or should at least be an option to turn off), and right now there is only a button to pop it out, not to return to full screen.  Other than that I am so far very happy with the features, and use it constantly.  Going back to old e-mail would be hard, good work!
Why don't my Ingress portal submissions show photos in the Inbox app, but they show in GMail? 
Is there a way to change the language and still keep the location services?   I speak English, but right now my Inbox is incomprehensible as it's in the language of my current country of residence.   Found the language settings for the Chrome version ok, but not for the Android app which is unaffected by my making English my first language choice online. 
There's this problem of duplication though. Google Now alerts pick up the right time and provide the travel alerts. But Inbox is pulling in the travel times, adding them to the calendar and that is adding another item. So basically for the same trip I get multiple alerts. 
While I'm a huge fan of bundles, I'd love to see the ability to apply additional (non-bundled) labels.  Heck, even if getting the user experience for *applying* additional labels to work smoothly is tricky, it'd be great to be able to *view* them (e.g. if they were applied by a filter rule). That way it would be easy to hide the complexity from most users while still giving those "advanced label users" a chance to give Inbox a real try without completely breaking their searching workflows.
Half swipes would be a usability nightmare.
Is there any sort of learning functionality in Inbox? For example if I continual move a type of email do a different bundle, will inbox learn that and help me in the future?  I have filters setup in G-mail but I haven't figured out how to create a bundle with all emails from @whateverdomain.com or bundles sent to any alias email addresses I have.   2nd question. Is there any extensive help docs out there about how to get the most out of inbox?
I don't like archiving, I want to be able to keep everything completely clean. The option to delete should be there.
So you let admins choose to turn it on or off, and let the admins educate their users, rather than leaving us in the cold.
I delete more than I archive and the extra click is annoying :(
We talked about our cross-client architecture in the [Gmail blog](http://gmailblog.blogspot.com/2014/11/going-under-hood-of-inbox.html) recently.  The process works really well and has a lot of benefits, namely we reduce code duplication, and it makes it much easier for each of the Inbox clients (web, Android, iOS) to ship features together. The logic is written once and then ported to all 3 platforms, leaving the frontend developers to focus on the UI.   The biggest downside is that sometimes the shared code has to be written in weird ways because it needs to support the quirks of each platform. For example, we avoid overloaded methods due to the way GWT exports them.  The tools (j2objc and GWT, specifically) are definitely production-ready. One thing thats helped us a lot is that we have folks who work on these tools on our team as well. A lot of GWT patches that have landed in the last year were specifically for Inboxs use cases.
Why we can't drag n' drop files to attach them on emails? I love this feature in Gmail.
Will you be adding the ability to have signatures?
Why does it have to look like an elementary school craft project?  Will themes or custom colors be introduced at some point?
Can someone enlighten me as I have yet to use Inbox. What's the point of it? To replace Gmail? To complement Gmail? Why replace Gmail if that is the case? What's better about Inbox than Gmail? 
When receiving emails from Ingress/Niantic for portal approval/denial why doesn't the pic show? (It does in gmail)
Double swipe right to delete. There you go. Now gimmemonies @ 1DansEnyTgKydVbufZwKpTui9imsosmart
What happened to web standards? Is chrome the new IE?
[deleted]
You mentioned in a previous comment that email has changed since you launched Gmail.  Are you designing Inbox to eventually replace Gmail? 
You could just Google "how software companies make software" and get the same general answer lol
We designed Inbox as a separate product, and think its best to just dive in and only use Inbox rather than toggle back and forth between Inbox and Gmail.  In case you havent tried it yet, check out the Inbox web client at inbox.google.com.
Completely agree. As a Firefox user, I feel like Goog's recent trend of cutting out and limiting features and services for Firefox is really just damaging their image. I'm not going to switch to use Inbox, I'll just *not use it*...
[deleted]
[deleted]
Please tell me that Inbox will never fully replace Gmail?  - a scared Google Business customer.
Yea but functions like package tracking, flight status do not work with google app email accounts
Is there anything that can be done to make Gmail work with Apple Mail?
Um... *reply* ? Like, _the_ most important action for email? Yep, totally not equal to "mark it done" and deserves folding behind additional triple-dot menu? :( Will there ever be desktop version that is more reasonable in amount of information shown (as unlike tiny screen you have more space)?
Do you have any connection with Google glass and are they still in the beta stages?
We use Java, Javascript, and Objective-C. We talk a little more about our architecture in [this blog post](http://gmailblog.blogspot.com/2014/11/going-under-hood-of-inbox.html).
Don't want to be pushy but a lot of us really want this. Is this a "we'll get to it soon" thing or is this a "look for it in a couple of months" thing?
We have lots of interesting ideas about 3rd party developer support. This is going to be a big deal in the future, but we arent ready to talk about it yet. In the short term, you can already use markup to send interactive messages.  Check it out: https://developers.google.com/gmail/markup/  The promotions tab grid view is a field trial we have been running in Gmail. We don't have anything additional to announce at this time.
[deleted]
Same for me and this is probably the key feature that made me decide to go back to gmail.
The reports of the death of email have been greatly exaggerated ;)  We see no evidence that email use is declining and we have done lots of research into how millennials communicate.  What we have seen, though, is that the way people use email has changed a lot since Gmail was invented.  Inbox was designed based that research  for example, we found that email works as a todo list for many people, which is why we added Reminders, and that mobile usage is significantly on the rise, which is why desktop and mobile support the same set of features.
One of Google Apps' most important features is being stable, easy, and nothing new or really confusing popping up. A consistent experience. So things change much slower on that side.
[deleted]
The same way you haven't made it to the gym as much as you wanted to in the last 10 years - shit just comes up.
Why does marking as done not mark the email as read?
&gt; I don't like archiving every email, it wreaks havoc with searches later on.  Too few people understand this!  I use gmail for my personal email and we have GApps at work so I spend a lot of time in gmail.  It's really so much better to delete unneeded emails, especially when your mailbox grows by 5GB/year.  That said, I've trialed Inbox with my personal account and it just isn't for me.  I've always kept on top of my email, unsubscribing, setting up filters, labeling, archiving etc., that my gmail inboxes for personal and work are really just that: inboxes.  A message rarely spens more than a day or so there and I don't need much help organizing my email otherwise.
[deleted]
Yes! Thank you!
I really like Inbox; it's replaced Gmail for me and I like that you took a radical approach to email UX.  One question: Inbox does not search my Hangout chats. I have to open Gmail for this. Any plans to change this?
Maybe it's because I grew up with hoarders, but this makes me cringe. Having to keep emails I don't need would irritate me.
And meeting request support to go with calendar integration please.
Better question is, will Microsoft Outlook move to a more open standard for sending calendar event invites?  The answer to your question is that it will gain this functionality when they release Inbox for Google Apps customers.
I second this. For me Inbox is great for on the go while not so useful if I'm in front of a computer.
[deleted]
Same, I thought once I switched to Inbox and loved it I'd never look back. Turns out they complement each other really well!
Impressive answer.  Thanks for the effort put into this.
Approximately when will Inbox be available for accounts on personal Google domains (i.e. not @gmail.com), if ever?
Answered multiple places in this thread.
Loving Inbox so far, it's really streamlined and simplified my emailing process. But there are a few UI and interaction issues I have questions / comments about -  * Obviously everyone he is talking about the lack of a delete option. This is important as I have no reason to keep the promotional / spam emails in my gmail forever, I will never look at them again. Why not make it easy to delete them, similar to the way I can mark them as done. * Why are there so many contextual (hamburger / three dots / whatever its called) menus everywhere? If i'm in an email that's inside a bundle, I have the menu for the email (reply / forward etc), directly above is the menu for the uhh email again (bin / spam / remove from bundle etc) and then directly above that is the bundle menu (move all to bin / spam etc). This is a ridiculous amount of cognitive load on the user. I have been testing myself on these menus daily and I still constantly click the wrong one or accidentally delete an entire bundle by mistake when I'm in a hurry. * I'm not sure the bold text on an unread email is the clearest when the screen is full, perhaps there is a better / clearer option to indicate an unread email, like colour accents or highlighting or different shades of greyscale. * On Android I'd love to be able to set different notification tones for different bundles. Short of that, being able to change the application notification sound would be great!  Thanks!
Here echoing this very comment.  While I understand that you need to tread carefully with features that enter the Enterprise world, I find it sad that these hugely helpful features (along with Google Now for Gmail) are slow to implement.  I though I checked a box that said "I want early access to new features" in my admin console.  Inbox for Apps account would be a huge game changer.
Moving an email to a label folder is archiving.  Apply the label to a message and then archive it.  It's been moved to that label's "folder."
I love swiping to archive, but I've always wondered: why can't the swipe also mark the message as read?   I love using Inbox, but this is the one feature that made Mailbox so attractive to many users originally. This seems like a feature that many "inbox zero" users would love to have the option of. 
Inbox hasn't been released for business users yet.  You are using a free personal account.
I also being able to drag and drop attachments onto the window. I'm surprised at how annoying it is that you have to browse for files using the standard file selector. My question would be how long until thinnest release that might have better attachment management?
good! it's kinda hard to use on my Nexus 7...
If something goes horribly wrong, a few thousand people are affected, not 10s of thousands.  And if there's complications, again, small part of the market might get a bad taste in their mouth instead of all users.  It's a testing period, to make sure everyone will be happy, and don't shit-can the service before they've gotten the initial bugs out.  Very smart way of handling things in my opinion.
Seriously. This is the most annoying thing about Inbox. 
What additional interface elements would you like to see on the desktop? The people to tell are right here in this thread - put some detail in to your request and you might be surprised what happens.
Why can't Windows Phone users use Inbox? And why haven't you created a Windows Phone/Windows Gmail or Inbox apps yet?
They're surely answer this.
I get about 30 pieces per day and one valid email misclassified as spam per week, so I delete to manage what I have reviewed
Long-press.
I've never played with package tracking, but flight status worked perfectly for me in October.
[deleted]
Yes, please give me month-view back!
I think at this point the only question that matters is....... Ahem....  **!WHY?!**  Why create yet *ANOTHER* email client? Why not integrate all these features into Gmail App? Thanks.
It used to be if you opted into 'rapid release' new google products, even razor edge ones, were available fairly quickly in your organization.  I don't think rapid release means that anymore, which makes me sad.
But.. that's less fun.  And technically I am. If you think about it.
Yup. I can't wait for the day I can use inbox for my work email.
Because they didn't want to hear people whining about being forced lol
When can we expect to see inbox on other browsers? 
Nah, you can't copy anything from already composed emails. Try it
I use inbox as a to do list.
I'm curious which app you do use. I'd love to see a quality app that supported this on Android, it's one of my favourite features from iOS's mail app. 
[deleted]
I use undo send in gmail all the time.  I forget to attach items easliy 99% of the time.  That undo send is a life saver!
That would be sorta hard, if only because a lot of those promos are embedded in images so there's no text to easily read.  Some places have text-only alt versions of those emails, but probably not guaranteed.  
I've fallen in love with inbox. Do you plan on I integrating other email services? I would love to do emails from my schools Microsoft's exchange and my hotmail as well
[deleted]
We'll see which one gets you the answer faster! haha
Well, that sucks. Sorry, mate.
I don't know that I agree with you.  I use gmail personally and I administer a GApps domain for work so I spend hours everyday in Gmail.  My gmail inbox is just that, an inbox.  Messages never really stay there for more than a day or so and I have tons of filters and labels and archive/delete messages very actively.  I've tried Inbox with my personal account and it just doesn't work for me.  The things that it's trying to do I already do myself with filters and labels (bundling) or stars (snooze).  While I totally understand the appeal of Inbox for certain types of users; I've invited a few people who are really liking it, for me and how I use email, it's just "too smart" a product and it's doing things that I *like* to do myself so that I have control of how those things are happening.
I think you can easily make snoozes be single tap only, just add more pre-set options with good visual cues like Mailbox does.
Any chance bundles and snoozing will come to Gmail? Those are the main reasons I periodically use Inbox, but I just can't fully move to it because of the more powerful filtering the Gmail has.
I Gmail guys. Can someone please make it so I can empty my trash can in your Android app? Can't explain why I need this, I just do. 
How does it feel to develop an app such as this, that will impact lots of people?
In inbox when I goto send a new hangouts message (I have/had google voice) to a user who is in my google contacts it will not auto suggest or link to my google contacts to send an SMS to that person.  I have to goto contacts.google.com to pull the phone number and then paste it into the hangouts message.  Why do they not link? can you please link them?  This is probably not the best place to ask this but this is something that is annoying in inbox/hangouts
[deleted]
I want the one more button on the top with archive.
When are you implementing apps into Inbox? I'm sick of using two email apps. Love gmail and Inbox, but want one or the other. 
Delete emails so they don't impact your Drive storage amount - granted, I shouldn't have a problem with that for a while but I'm up near 2GB of email taking up the promo 15GB allowed for non-paying and non-promotional (i.e. XX GB free for buying a certain device) Drive users.
The IMAP accounts have a slightly different UI, e.g. it has folders etc. It's a normal IMAP client.
Any plans for some type of user friendly encryption?
People will forget and it will raise hell when they try to find a message and don't find it.
[deleted]
Do you need one? Pm me
I just want to reinforce this point, I went back to Mailbox after a week ONLY because I couldn't easily delete emails with Inbox. If I want to find a deleted email, I go look in my deleted. I know they stay there for 30 days.
Why is Google Inbox so slow? :/
Boomerang has been my go-to for the most urgent response tracking cases. As an SMB worker myself, I also have yet to be able to justify the recurring costs of unlimited Boomerangs.   The other tools you've listed seem quite helpful-- thanks! I hope they'll tide me over until Inbox deploys for our Google Apps. 
Just want to add another 'vote' to this.  98% of the email I get is read once then delete. I'd really like a quick trash function.
But you could rely on the checkmark morphing into a trashcan though?
I agree, I never archive but I delete all the time. It annoys me to no end.
It's not.  It works really well in Mailbox.
But at least we finally got some answers on the situation. 
Is the iOS app going to remain a focus for the Inbox team? This app feels so far superior to gmail on iOS, but a few bugs have kept me from totally deleting gmail off my phone (mainly notifications not working 100% right)
I can see a reason to archive some stuff, but archiving everything just creates pollution when I try to search for something useful that I actually need from my past emails. Instead of finding 10 results in my email search of relevant stuff, if I archive everything I will find 100 results of mostly crap that I don't need.
But what if I think the whole thing is overdesigned, and I don't want some algorithm to sort my mail for me?
[deleted]
Noooo !!! Too late !   DEAR GOD HOW DO I MARK ALL MY MAIL AS READ ?!    I have 5000 unread emails, this makes no sense ...
Yeah, you could refute what I said and actually engage in discussion with me, but just call me an apologist instead
Will there be a feature to click multiple emails and forward them?
&gt; not something that would make waves  don't worry bro, I miss Google Wave too ... 
I personally could never get the hang of that. I want to swipe without concerns for how fast or how far my thumb moves. I always end up making mistakes when I'm moving fast.
The simplest thing that is missing is signature text. I can't imagine this would be difficult so I hope it's coming. Any word?   At the moment I have a draft with my gmail name, phone, website etc. Which I need to copy over for each email. 
Go to GMail, select all, click Mark as Read.
Google Now works fine with my Google Apps account.  What are you seeing on yours?
Yup, I have it turned on, gives you about 6 or 7 seconds before it actually sends.
Oh yeah, one would think it's that simple hey ?  You can only delete 50 message doing so. So I'd have to repeat this operation 100 times ... That's why I want a true "read all" ... Madeness :-(    (And in case you wonder, those mails have been, in fact, read, they just come from a Yahoo! inbox import)
I'm hoping to see this in the future. The only reason I don't use Inbox right now is because I only want one email app, and Gmail works well enough. I do use the Inbox web app though, and I like it! Nice work!
Yes, but the option to delete when "done" is what I meant. 
Sorry flight status works if you search on google but it won't retrieve your bookings from emails
When I press select all, it gives me a popup with the option to actually select every mail (not just the ones on screen). 
good interesting Idea. after some thought though it may make experience little frustrating with different bundles having different swipe actions. User will need to remember all these things and make it difficult experience.
Can I keep my gmail in the exact configuration I have it in right now and opt out of Inbox if I so choose? 
I've completely switched over to using a single google account by setting all others to autoforward to my primary, and adding that account to the "send mail as" section of my primary account. By default, you reply as the address that an email was sent to, and it creates what is essentially a unified inbox on every device and service. Obviously this method isn't for everyone, but it works for me.
It says all but it actually only select 50 for me. I'm using Chrome. I'm a web developer, I just ... arf.   Anyway, your kind reply gave me the force to Google once again how to solve this, and behold : Someone actually found a trick ! instead of selected "all" in the "unread" section (which only selects 50), you can search for "is:unread" , then select all, THEN you get an option that says "50 conversation selected" and "Do you want to select ALL conversations" .   So, thanks for the kind reply that gave me motivation, stranger ! :-)
McDonalds.com/jobs  Good luck!
Same issue happens on Google Keep.
This! You can't know how people will snooze for different kinds of messages unless you give them an unbiased choice to begin with. Trying to infer *anything* from a UI that is biased to begin with may just mislead you horribly.
Why isn't there a Windows phone version!!! I got invited and accepted it on bluestacks to check it our... But when will there be one for me (and my employer provided phone). 
[deleted]
yes. just keep using gmail, inbox is just kinda a different front end
Weird, it definitely worked when I helped someone cleaning up their emails recently. Glad that workaround did it for you though!
What does it even mean to snooze an email?
That's my work around as well, though I'd much rather each address be discrete and not touch each other, since two of four are shared addresses like an Exchange org box and I want to avoid divergent states.
I don't, I make a mental note to reply/send when I get back to my desktop :/  I was told K-9 mail (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fsck.k9) can do it, see eg.  https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/k-9-mail/8ZIQE_j7Pzc for configuration, but I'd rather use a single email app, even if that means replying later on (for now I hope).
Reply is shown at the bottom of an email when you open it (right next to your contact picture).  Just click it and start typing.
It didn't go unheard, it's just a duplicate. See their answer here: https://pay.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2o629q/we_are_the_inbox_by_gmail_team_ask_us_anything/cmk34bm
Regardless of anything else, selecting a custom date and time for a specific message should be improved. Right now it automatically opens date selection and selecting a specific time has multiple options (Morning, Evening, then custom).
It is somewhat unlikely that "we switched the user agent and it looked okay" is all the testing they do, or that it is necessary to do.
That could be pretty confusing, though. You get used to swiping meaning something specific, do it when you're in the wrong view, and bam you've just deleted a slew of emails you really needed.
read posts above. already asked several times and answered.
Are you aware that attachments through share intents are broken for Inbox?
My question: I like how you make it so much more intuitive for mobile usage but why do you neglect some basic desktop features even if they do not impede mobile friendlyness?      Examples you ask?  I open an email, I read, I wanna go back to whatever list I've been before. So I push the back-button on my mouse an BOOOM I'm on the new tab page.    I am writing or reading an email. I have some text highlighted for some reason. I wanna get rid of the highlight and intuitively click on a random part of the page... guess what? The email is closed.    
Ya, it came pretty apparent to me that archiving things was a pain when I tried to search for an email I got last week and still had to shuffle through a bunch of emails I would have otherwise deleted. It would be nice to swipe left to delete and right to save, or for there to be a Delete All button, at least for things like Promotions. 
Re sends it to you at a later time, for when you cant deal with an email now, but dont want to forget about it.  Inbox treats emails as tasks.  There is no archiving in Inbox, really.  Each "task" can be set to Done, when you have completed what you need to do for that email. 
Swipe left - done   Swipe right - delete    just saying...
I too alway delete things. thats probably the biggest reason I dont use inbox as much as the normal Gmail app- deletion is tedious and the bulk of my mail is stuff I dont need to see again.
Ahh! He said tablets! iPad version confirmed!  *Starts dancing*
&gt;The people who choose to pay Google directly shouldn't be afterthoughts.  They're not! I hate this interpretation of the world. I have a free (grandfathered) Apps account, so you can believe I get burned by this type of thing *all the time*, but instead of looking at it as "I'm always the LAST person to get new products", consider:  You're at Google, you're about to roll out a new product called Google Drive. It allows people to upload any file they want to Google's cloud, and they're backed up and stored securely in multiple locations.  Google Drive is doing great for most users internally but you haven't tested absolutely every type of user, so you slap a big "Beta" sign on it and roll it out to every Google account, including Apps users. Apps users love it, and immediately start using it to store things.  What you didn't anticipate is that some large organizations use it for millions of documents on a single "docs owner" account. You never anticipated that someone would store O(millions) of docs, shared to thousands of users, and you're not ready to handle that use case/scale. A few large accounts from a few big customers lose all their document data.  You marked it beta. You made everyone agree to a liability disclaimer so you can't be sued over the loss of data. You're *still* going to lose those big accounts, you're still costing Google a ton of money, and it's because you chose to treat Apps users identically to free consumer-level users.  That is a *total* hypothetical, of course, but it's that type of concern that probably prevents Google from treating the two types of user similarly. If anything, the people who are paying Google are getting *more* consideration and concern while the rest of the users do large-scale beta testing! :p
No, Android tablet version confirmed.
What should I do if I don't want an invite for Inbox?
Googles stock email app does.
Is google ever going to support windows phone?
Mailbox on iOS.  It's not perfect but the best overall IMO. Swiping is very nice.
For sure - that blog post was where I first heard about it and it sounds like a great way of doing things. Do you mind sharing any of those workarounds?  Would love to hear what types of things you had to solve. Btw I ask mainly as I probably will be going down the same road first on personal projects and then if those work out in my workplace. Would love to save time by avoiding problems you guys have already worked hard at solving. 
I used Inbox for several weeks exclusively as I worked on slowly getting the bajillion emails that have added up over the last ten years of Gmail use under control. The first time I saw that blue screen with the sun when I went to check my mail, I had to pinch myself to believe it was actually true. However, now that it's actually under control, I find myself back to Gmail, as it has so much more functionality.
What is the purpose of inbox vs gmail and do you feel you're getting the response you're hoping for from users?
Yeah, that's sort of what I was thinking. Certainly would be nice, though.
Why is Inbox so lame?
[deleted]
The issue is that if you use Google Drive quite a bit, the storage space amassed from archiving junk mail every day eats into a large amount of storage space. I'm all for spending money for something I use, but if my 15gb of free storage is getting eaten up by emails about 10% off sales from Banana Republic and not documents and photos (and actually important emails) that are of use to me, that makes me not want to use this app exclusively.
That's true. I'm thinking specifically about the web interface, where the buttons can have the appropriate icons - on mobile with swiping, it's a bit different. Maybe swiping the message can reveal a delete/archive icon behind the message or something, along with appropriate undo options....  And suddenly it becomes super-complicated. This problem is probably the exact reason that they haven't implemented the feature yet!
As someone who codes emails day to day, why don't you support media queries and render as if it was a WebKit based browser? Between apps like inbox and outlook you make me cry daily :(  On top of this, how do you think this is going to effect online campaigns and email targeting of they are all grouped together and easier to ignore??
I think it should be default to archive everywhere, but with easy to set up rules for 'delete any archived promos that are older than 30 days'. That way you still have the ability to recover from swiping the wrong thing or realizing hey, maybe I DO want to check out that whatever it was from newegg,  but you also don't build up more than a months worth of cruft.
Mobile could probably integrate a long press of sorts - swipe to archive, long press than swipe to delete.  If items go to the trash and stay there for 10-30 days that could also help as it gives people the option to undo things.
For a lot of people it is not a work email account but more a way to have a customized private email address.   And since we pay for it we would like to have the cool stuff from Google as well.
[deleted]
And HD contact photos!
Where's the option for this?
let it sink in a bit ^^
Will inbox support non-Chrome browsers eventually? 
Do you guys think there will be a way to customize the snooze times in the future? 
I don't see why they wouldn't make it for both. There is an iPhone app, there is no reason for there to not be an iPad one. Doesn't Inbox already work on Android tablets though?
Google uses the contents of my Gmail account to target advertising at me. Does this affect your decision to make deletion difficult?
Thanks.   Ya, if you want to keep work and personal emails separate it's not going to work as well. 
This is something so many devs don't take care of. Sorry for you guys!
probably because last time they changed gmail, people freaked the fuck out.
I know this is a bit late for the AMA, but I just wanted to say I really respect how you guys are really pushing quality with Inbox. I want to build a company one day. When I do, this is the type of quality apps and services I want to design, and it is awesome to see other companies taking a similar approach. Fantastic job guys, keep up the good work :)
[deleted]
What's the target demographic of google inbox?
Android was designed for a wide variety of resolutions across many different physical sizesa plus and/or minus, depending on how you askso there are built-in ways to reflow layouts. With iOS, there's a bigger divide between iPhones and iPads (well, until pretty recently anyway) and so developers have gone for more separate interfaces.  If you've ever used the FullForce jailbreak tweak on an iPad, it quickly becomes apparent that many iPhone layouts simply just don't work on the iPad.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Settings&gt;Add account
Yeah, I know.
I think the preferred solution here would be figuring out how to improve search so never deleting is more feasible for everyone.  Not saying I know how to do that though.
[deleted]
Dear Google Inbox team:  Why do I have to *download the app* before I can use this *in a browser*?  I don't have a recent-enough Android to use it.  Cheers for the invite.
Hey!  Thx for this ama!   A few questions:   Are you guys technically part of the gmail team?   What are your plans regarding release cycles? Are there any plans and deadlines that you set for yourself or do you release when ready and tested?  And since you have already answered that support for exchange will come one day, can you please make sure that sync&amp;notifications for subfolders works? And while at it,could you do the same for gmail please?   thx
Right, I see what you mean. My father owns a Galaxy Tab which I use every once in a while, and one time I tried Spotify on it... Yeah. It didn't look the best. I did try that jailbreak, and you are right, they don't look the best.
Adding my oh hell yes vote to this.   Having installed Inbox I was disappointed to note that it doesnt work with Google Apps. As someone with a few domains of business and personal use  I dont actually use my @gmail address for anythign more than newsletters and one shot signups . Inbox looked interesting but unusable because 99% of my mail goes direct to my google apps for business accounts. 
It really depends on what you're using email for.  With Gmail, I'm the exact opposite of you.  There are very few emails I need to keep and a large number of them that I would like to be completely gone.   Most of the email I get is via notifications from various sites I've signed up for and are typically time-sensitive.  That information archived won't do me any good in the coming weeks or even the next day in many cases.  Better to simply delete it.  Anything I find worth keeping, I simply read and move on.
Remove the bundles
That was Google's purpose.  Enough of the rest of the world decided they wanted a delete option so Google put it in.
You can still get the AOSP email app. If you have gmail installed it'll just turn into a redirect, but if you ininstall or disable gmail you should be able to use it.
[deleted]
Easy solution: Make it an opt-in option for Google Apps domain administrators.
GIVE ME DELETE.  Use a similiar action like the Mailbox app.
AINT THAT THE TRUTH.  I don't use inbox because of the extra steps for deleting.  Mailbox FTW.
[deleted]
I had sent feedback in Calendar about the old month view and I received an email asking more questions about my usage of month view etc. So it looks like they're listening to what we have to say and hopefully may implement a similar month view soon.
I really want the Snooze feature for notifications.  Pinning would also be good.  In my dream world, it would have Snooze and Done.  I never pin things, I just snooze stuff until later.
Agreed - that's really the one thing keeping me from using Inbox at this point. I don't have any desire to archive 112 emails a day from Target and Amazon and West Elm, but nor do I want to click twice on every single one to delete it. 
That's just for multiple accounts, not a unified inbox. I think you misunderstand the feature that's being requested.
Why should I use inbox instead of the regular Gmail app ?
Then they can hit Undo
Yes!  The number one thing I miss after having made the Gmail to Inbox transition.  I can't wait!
[deleted]
Need that UNDO!
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Google Now works but you are only seeing a couple of the many features. Some examples of cards you dont see are Flights, Hotels, Car Rentals, Package Tracking,  (basically all the reservations and orders from Gmail), plus others I can't think of now. 
Have you ever worked in a real company?
Very nice. What were some of your reasons for usage?    I have always used a month view, whether on paper or electronic calendars.   It actually messes with my head (kinda stressful) not being able to see further than a week in advance. Hidden appointments on a busy day isn't an issue for me either. I'll avoid non-month view apps entirely so not having it loses people that cannot stand looking at anything else. Just some of my thoughts from a simple school teacher... /u/jasoncornwell 
why doesn't anyone send me emails? I'm so lonely :(
Do you plan to support the option to suppress remote image loading?  I love the interface, but I really don't want the view tracking "web bugs" from showing what emails I open and when.  This interface is great for me to manage mailing lists in particular, and it sucks for all marketing emails just due to that one feature being impossible to turn off.
I use and recommend [Mailbox](http://www.mailboxapp.com/). It's pretty much perfect.
This simply adds extra clicks and obscurity to a currently trivially simple system. Not sure how this is "improvement". 
[deleted]
[deleted]
Why are you/anyone subscribing to promotional emails if you don't want them? They all have unsubscribe buttons... Literally the only "spam" I get on gmail is stuff I've subscribed to.   If something hits my inbox it is because it is actually useful... This Inbox becomes mostly useless as all messages I get are actually important. Obviously I'm not the target audience. 
Seems like you keep changing your mind when it comes to image caching.  What's next?  How do you guys plan on handling rendering and serving videos/gifs in the future?
You guys are really active
On November 5th, I e-mailed for an invite and got a response  &gt;Thanks for requesting an invite. We'll send you one as soon as possible  but I never got a response. What's up with that? I'm not exactly chomping at the bit, but was there some sort of follow up I was supposed to do?
[deleted]
Same. I desperately want to use Inbox because it's one of the better Google iOS apps and I'd enjoy having push notifications again. But I can't because I hate using an app without a unified inbox. 
I exclusively use month view too. Just love being able to see the whole month at once. The different colored bars on each day were enough to remind me what those events were. Now it is just a circle around the day if you have one or multiple events for that day. Not intuitive at all.
But isn't undo send one of the experimental options?   I use Google Mail at work and have undo send. You can set it to to hold back messages for 5-30 seconds.  Great feature!  I haven't needed to use it yet but when that day comes it will be a good day.
How much profit do you guys per each of my emails that you sell, or is it a tiered system based on 'useable' content?
retail side. well. there you go.
Do you miss Google Wave as much as I do?
No I'm not. http://imgur.com/V6bYcxm
Hey guys, check it out, snooze option number #1 is far more popular than any single custom snooze duration. Looks like we got it right.
[deleted]
[deleted]
I'm talking about Safari. :(
Hi Bender,     Inbox is composed of both UI code, and shared business logic across the client, server, and another platforms (like Android/iOS).  UI code is usually written in the platform-native specific tools (HTML templates, JS, etc Java on Android, Objective-C on iOS), while shared code is cross compiled using GWT and j2objc.    For the Web in particular, we added a new Javascript Interop system to GWT 2.7 that makes it easy to call back and forth between JS and Java, subsuming my old GWT Exporter library.  If you are interested in a deeper dive, I am giving an indepth session at the upcoming gwtcreate.com conference in Mountain View and Munich in January.  We call these new style apps "Hybrid apps", and Inbox isn't even the first. Google Sheets shipped a similar architecture last year, and there's more to come! 
Because all my data is already in a Google Apps account with my own domain. 
I get the feeling this is about trying to save the user from themself, which is great for many less tech-savvy individuals, but isn't that what "undo" is for? And if you're still trying to provide that safety net regardless, then I think the most reasonable, logical approach, would be to add a check box in the settings for Inbox that enables/disables a quick delete option. It's far more likely that only people who want the feature would explicitly enable said option. I feel this is a best of both worlds approach.
You mean root it.
The key to using inbox is that its supposed to make things require less work, not more work. Why should we be expected to put in more work simply due to the lack of a faster delete option? I realize this is totally #firstworldproblems, but this is what sets user experiences apart. It's the little things that add up to the whole.
I love Inbox already.   As an Android Wear user, what can I expect to see in terms of Wear support and improvements for Inbox?
Get Pocket. Best app ever for this. I was like you. Pocket let's you save literally any link you want to the service, works on desktop, has an app for phone, and let's you sort and label things. I also save a ridiculous amount of articles (I think they sent me an email a year back to tell Mr that I was in the top 5% of users or something because I saved 2000 articles in that year lol). It's great because you can save YouTube videos and pretty much just about anything. I implore you to try it if you have not yet! Saved me from excessive bookmarking and emailing myself and I can rest assured that if I need to remember something from an article I'm not stuck trying to google for it to find it again,. It's all three, saved and waiting for me.  Whew, said way more than I expected, I just really love Pocket lol. I swear I have no affiliation whatsoever haha
Not everyone uses google apps for work. My wife, my dog and I use it for our own personal domain.
Apps is designed for businesses. That means it's going to be more stable and observe a slower upgrade cycle. It doesn't make sense for them to expend development resources getting Inbox, which isn't even in a complete state for personal users, to function with Apps. That's not an "easy solution." It's a lot more complicated than just adding a checkbox.  Using and paying for Apps to use as your personal account was an odd choice. If you were expecting cutting edge features, that was probably not a great idea.
I do want them. I like seeing promos and keeping up in sales. I just don't want to keep them forever.
About the image thing, I was always taught that the image not showing thing was not to protect me from virus (as the blogpost seems to point to) but more to protect me from spam.   The way I heard it works is that spammers send out tons of mail each with different image addresses for each mail and run something to continually check for if the image is downloaded or not as to see if the email-addresses correspond to actual people or not.   As far as I understand, the new way gmail does it won't really protect from that type of behavior, right? 
When will Gmail be able to direct mail to a particular folder?  Like school, a particular class (physics), a club (APHA), etc.  Right now I have to sort my mail after it arrives and its a pain.  Sometimes I get 20-30 emails from school, a club, or work.  Any quick tips for efficient sorting or automation?
You obviously have not met Google.
ever the truth fighter chyrux, u stick it to them one day maybe you'll be captain of a massive software project
Yes. I love Inbox on the computer, but I still use Mailbox (Dropbox's mail app) on the phone for the simple reason that I can swipe to trash. It's very convenient to be able to interact with messages that I don't want to keep.
[deleted]
Will the functionality to translate emails be implemented soonish? That's one of the main missing features for me.
can y'all ask Lord DuARTe to do an AMA?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Whops, my bad, let me clarify. While my father owns a Galaxy Tab, I own an iPad, which is what I tried the jailbreak on.
Swipe once for done, a second swipe in that direction deletes?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
I'm an "inbox zero" gmail user and when I tried the beta I was mostly frustrated by the A.I. trying to categorize things for me when I already have meticulous nested folders that everything gets processing into  I can't figure out: is there a use case for me?
So wait, you were just stating a fact about the inconsistencies, and not claiming that Google was screwing up the Lollipop launch? 
Christ, please no. As a matter of fact, it would be really nice to be able to turn off a lot of the existing Gmail stuff, too. I really just wanted email; not a personal assistant or HAL9000.
Why do you think that I want to be told which emails to read?
Interesting, do you guys work together often to squash bugs like the one you found in Firefox?
Google didn't make a huge splash but overall, when there is a change of this side, there is a certain expectation that there will be a few issues. I've had Lollipop since just a few days after release and overall it is what I expected it is nice and smooth and it will get better as the team works to correct the issues from launch. Nothing it perfect the first time around.
Seriously. They say Inbox is for the more demanding email needs and then don't release it to the more demanding users first. That's some backwards logic if I ever heard it. 
Same. Google's services are great, but fuck having an @gmail.com email address.
[deleted]
So _that_'s why I didn't get any package tracking cards on google now. God fucking damnit.
To be fair, email didn't feel like much work before y'all started making major and unnecessary changes to our inbox and not allowing us to have full control over our own filters like we used to. 
It's impossible to get a gmail domain that's not just random gibberish at this point, and personally I want to have my own domain on my email.
How do I get rid of The Red? 
Privacy:  The data is gone, and so can't come back at some future date to harm you.
Hopefully the hangouts team is going that way. Multiple accounts on android, piece of cake, but pc \chrome is a mess.
Google has a long line of "parallel products". Yes, their strategy is to keep this separate.
Emails that have been unopened and marked as done will appear as unread in Inbox as well. There should be an option for this.
In other words "we care more about the way we want it to work than how users want it to work."
if it happens all the time then maybe by some definitions the product was actually 'ready' but perhaps just not 'ready for chyrux's standards'.  It doesn't feel horribly rushed.  Those are just like, your opinions, man
When/Is Google going to put a link to the user's contacts on the desktop version of the site?  I sometimes need to add or edit contacts while on the computer and there does not seem to be any easy way except to go to Gmail and then do it there. It's really frustrating to have to do that every time. Just an option within the slide out menu would be great!
Who do you think would win in a fight between Uncle Phil and The Incredible Hulk?
Yep.  Chrome is looking more and more like the IE6 of today.  Forking webkit wasn't cool.
Thank you!
[deleted]
Morning routine most certainly does not adhere to material design, it just uses as many flashy animations as possible. In material design, elements are not supposed to crinkle or crumble.
It would be great if you could integrate the recent Application Launcher for Drive extension into Inbox.  That way the user could open files natively like they can do in Google Drive now.
Any plans to merge Inbox and GMAIL?
This feature already exists for gmail. It delays sending the email for 5 seconds. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
How do you manage contacts with Inbox? That feature seems to be missing when compared with Gmail.
Is Gmail safe from NSA?
Clicking on the date will give you month view. Not default but it's a nice at-a-glance type thing
Have I have an invite already? Missed both windows I saw by minutes! 
[deleted]
I think Im using the lab version of it because it pops up whenever i send a message. What are you still working on with it?
PM me if you need an invite, I have 5 available
joke all you want, got it.
I don't really understand what's so hard about implementing a feature like this. Especially in almost-2015. As long as the recipient hasn't "read" the email, the sender should be given the option to undo. Only when the email has been "read" should the option disappear. I don't know. It just seems like a feature that should have been available long ago.
I think Google now is fantastic, it tells me about my flights, traffic, items I'm shopping for, stocks. If google now doesn't have the information you want it is because you don't use Google enough and are not integrated fully.
Because there's no way a huge data mining and analysis company like Google would be able to account for that in their research.
Excellent answer, as a reseller... this is great!
Because that's not how email *works*. Sure, if you're sending gmail to gmail, Google could put a system in place that lets you unsend something as long as it's not read. But the way email works universally is that once you've sent it, it's almost the same as sending a letter. You've sent the data, it's done, you have no control over it any more.  What you're suggesting is that the entire email technology gets redone, and a feature like that would be a serious reworking and wouldn't be backwards compatible. Likely, an "undo send" feature would just mean that your email gets delayed from being sent for a bit, and during that time period you can cancel sending it.
Google has introduced adding of personal emails in GMail for Android. So all your Hotmails and even work emails can be added.  So my question is, will you bring Inbox for non-gmail IDs too?
&gt; Calendar  How about an option / filter in the Google calendar web edition that lets you see only appointments or events for which you've yet to reply?  That would make it MUCH easier 
What was your mindset when coming up with the idea of inbox?
When will you offer unlimited storage? 
Would be nice to have a swipe one way to delete and swipe another way to archive. (When I first tried it, I assumed that was how it worked until I learned the hard way.)
Is there any way to shut off notifications from certain addresses without moving them to Spam? I get a lot of emails from Valve based on purchase receipts and I'd rather not have them barraging my phone.
Ray, thank you for the response.   I'd really like to see one of your talks sometime. I'll be on the lookout for your upcoming sessions.   Really interested in hearing more about "hybrid apps". 
Awesome to see a big company developer so openly passionate about improving their product 
Months? Really? That's something you could implement overnight.... 
I've used this for emails that have bills or tickets in them. I just snooze until a couple days before the event
Alright let's go. I work for a company created by arguably one of the largest financial companies on the east cost and one of the top database companies in the US. We handle secure data for huge clients and have created a web portal for customer access to said data.  So let's see, big companies, bigger clients, $1.5 mil contracts and guess what. Development started with unfinished assets 90% of the time. Wanna know why? Functionality first. Take the menu for example. Menus all function properly but there are tons of design discrepancies. Our workflows are solid in our product at launch but you better believe there are discrepancies with icon placements and header types. Why? Because before launch, no matter how good you are, things still go wrong and that last chunk of time you allotted for polishing up the UI is spent handling all bugs from Blockers down to Trivials.  Of course you may say, these guys don't have to answer to clients, its for their company. Doesn't matter and in some cases that is even worse. You have multiple teams trying to push out their products under the umbrella of Google. That is mind bogglingly difficult to manage all communication between all their platforms.  Instead of getting all high and mighty take a look at Google's progress with every launch. They've never played the short game. Think about how everything came together in Kit Kat that started with Honeycomb! In Lollipop they just accomplished 4 iterations worth of UI and functionality updates in one year.  But no, let's harp of the fucking icon differences.  /rant
The great part is that Gmail has been around long enough that a competitor could replace Gmail with a clone based on open source technologies (ie Elasticsearch). You may have to pay a bit (FastMail charges, but its cheap), but that's a great alternative to being forced over to Inbox when the time comes.  I believe the time is coming soon where email is still going to be an open protocol/standard, but MTAs are going to use REST APIs to exchange messages instead of SMTP/POP/IMAP, all of your email is going to be exportable as JSON, and you'll be able to easily import/export it as compressed bundles. I may just be crazy though. I just don't want the Gmail-&gt;Inbox migration to look like Google Chat-&gt;Hangouts (which is fucking terrible and a step backwards).
This reasoning is what keeps me using Mailbox. 
Also as soon as I receive an email on my phone I get a notification and preview of the email sent, would that notification simply disappear? 
When will the gmail android app be able to sort unread messages to the top?
Can you install extensions at work? If you install a user agent extension for Firefox, you can make websites display as if the browser was Chrome.
Wow. They must have added that at some point recently, before deprecating the email app entirely?   Sadly, I can't get that for my phone, because Lollipop moves Email to be handled by the Gmail app entirely.   Advice for you, don't upgrade. 
[deleted]
Nah it's just Google. Who'd notice?
You sound like someone who doesn't develop software.
Will I ever get my planet theme? Honestly, it's 95% of the reason why I use gmail. No kidding around here. :)
Aren't there system-wide (on Android at least) accessibility options that makes it easier for people with specific color differentiation issues to detect the different colors?
Why can't i use this for windows?
Why is Google letting the government read my emails without search warrants? 
[deleted]
[deleted]
I use Firefox as my "work" browser where my gmail, docs, calendar, JIRA all live. All my dev work is done in Chrome. It's annoying when they purposely fuck with Firefox. 
Check your trash folder. 
I hate getting two notifications per email
On iOS too please!
How would this work? Would "sent" emails be delayed for an amount of time (lets say five minutes) for this tool to be in use?  
it's a beta. if other browsers had to be in, beta would have been out later, or other features wouldn't have gotten in. So damn if you do, damn if you don't. Many developers of websites do this... they build for one browser initially just as a prototype, and then add support for other browsers... you guys are complaining that they decided to release it before they added the browser support... doesn't make any sense.
Who is the incredibly attractive, Indian PM on the Inbox team? Will you please be my friend?
It's in gmail proper (maybe a lab?)
The only problem is finding clients to buy quality apps. Most clients I've worked with try to get the price as low as possible. Cutting hours off dev time.
[deleted]
Why can't I expand my chat window like I can with gmail?
Can you make it so if I click a bundle with only one thing in it, it automatically opens that one thing? 
I think, given how the email protocol in general works it's nearly impossible to "recall" an email once it has been received. 
I'm always hesitant to archive stuff like promos that I'll never need again, because it'll clutter up the search results later on when I'm trying to find an older email. 
I gave Inbox a try but instead of being something useful I feel like it's more confusing to use, can you guys upload a very detailed tutorial on how to use Inbox on YouTube?
That actually makes a ton of sense. Swipe away promo emails to trash, but when you're actually reading it you'll have the "done" button.
I know more than a couple people who would go ballistic if they woke up and were suddenly in Inbox with no way out.   some folks hate change. 
It was a perfect decision. All of that market research you just mentioned describes me perfectly, and having a whole fresh approach to email has been unbelievably useful to me. I actually enjoy staying on top of my inbox now, rather than neglecting it for days/weeks like a chore. 
Can you come up with a way to unsubscribe from unwanted emails within gmail? They make it impossible! 
I have an "undo send" add on for my desktop gmail...  It basically delays sending for about 20-30 seconds so you can change your mind.  That's the easy way to solve the problem..
You have little use for the Dunkin Donuts offer, but do you have to delete it? It takes up practically no room and once it's archived it's out of your life. You want to go out of your way to tidy up a construct that does not need tidying. It used to, but not anymore. Cheap disk space and instant search have obsoleted deleting.
My assumption would be that there is a delay before it gets sent in which it can be canceled.  
This should be the top question!!! I feel like it's been 3+ years since it's worked as it should.  It's literally the biggest frustration I have these days.
[deleted]
Bingo.
Is the intent here to eventually make these snooze options context aware? Since your magical robots already know how to identify different types of email, another step would be to learn when (and where) I typically read these different types of messages. I could see this making the "snooze until" defaults more useful, as well as improving the sorting order for bundles without requiring the user to go through the effort of setting it up.
https://support.google.com/mail/answer/1284885?hl=en  Sorry for the gross link, I'm on mobile. This undo send option works, but it's capability expires after a limited time. 
I should have been more constructive. I mean, implying you don't know how development tends to go doesn't help the conversation. Sorry about that.  I guess it's not much unlike how actual physical developments get prolonged or delayed. Someone laid a foundation wrong, or the blueprints missed a detail, so work needs to be ripped up or modified to accommodate that. In software, that would be rewriting code or refactoring it - That can be a huge hit on scheduling, and it's fairly usual on large projects.  This sort of delay isn't uncommon. It's very hard to spec out a project properly at that scale, even with years of experience under your belt. So many technologies are involved, so many workers - It's essentially guaranteed you're going to have some hang ups.  You can get the odd person leaving the team or something. Losing a critical person can set you back significantly, even putting parts of the project at a stand-still. This is probably less of an issue on the Inbox team though.  In that 2 year span, a lot of stuff at Google and on the internet changed. These changing trends and technological milestones could have made it so the goals of Inbox needed to change as well (I'm guessing). For example, the public adoption of certain technologies or the development of new technologies within Google, could make it so the Inbox team would be able to make the initial release of Inbox considerably better in some way. Maybe at 1.5 years it was in a releasable state, but adding x or y feature might seem like it could improve adoptions drastically, so they put off release and add the feature in.  There are heaps of things that make a large project like this take a very long time. And while Inbox seems pretty simple with not very many moving parts and not a load of apparent features, that's really not the case. It's just an example of people making complex technology extremely useable and accessible. Quite a bit more work went into it than meets the eye, and it was built extremely well.
The bundling and just delivering once a day is nice.  I totally missed this in the app.  
You can't be serious. How much work does it take to offer a download option
what are these other demands?
It baffles me how Google developers start treating the Web as it's their closed ecosystem like iOS and Android.
I love the way the app operates but I don't like the lack of separation between messages.  Will there be multiple themes in the future? 
If this is true then it's not that other browsers are missing features, it's that Googles sniffs out what browser you have and explicitly prohibits access to Inbox 
Didn't you mean as slow as possible ?
How do you change the notification sound for Gmail? I didn't know that was possible. You're opening my world! 
[deleted]
I love inbox except for one thing : why can't I delete my trash folder from inbox?    I have to open Gmail to do it and if I don't when I go to the done folder it shows up. If I delete something I want it gone... Not hiding in trash and showing up also in my done folder.  At least have it stay in trash! 
So much this!  Also my deleted items show up in my done folder until I go to Gmail and empty trash 
Have a comment reply!
You can - go to your trashcan, and then hit the menu button (3 dots) at the upper right. You'll have the option there.
Yea, eventually - they covered the reasoning behind being Chrome-only in an answer here (which I would link but I'm on mobile).
PM me, I got a few.
This sounds like a business decision disguised as design. If Google sells storage space, it is to their advantage to archive mail rather than delete it. This way, mailboxes get filled-up ever so faster. Agree with the below comments: a Trash button would be great. Getting promo emails is good for me as a consumer, but most times, they're not interesting.
Here's my thoughts:  Primarily Inbox is all about accepting a workflow that someone else has thought really hard about making optimal. So - give up some preconceptions and have some trust. You might come round.  I NEVER delete emails in Gmail. After many years of use I still have space and there is no real downside to this once you get over your own OCD  The benefit is both large and subtle. It's one less tiny decision that I don't have to make. But I don't have to make it hundreds of times a week! I don't have to worry or think or forecast my future needs. I don't have to weigh up regret vs tidiness. I just click archive and move on...  I wouldn't have it any other way...
goto trash folder -&gt; menu button -&gt; empty trash
Why web gmail and android gmail has different sets of labels? For example "Purchases" don't appears in android gmail. This is by intetion?
There's a "Disable Gmail notifications" feature in the settings of the Inbox app.
[deleted]
Good point, but if the icon changes too, you'll be able to see it with no problem.
I feel dumb but I swear I've looked a million times for that option! I'm going to go try it RIGHT NOW.  Thanks. Still,  why does my trash show up in done?  That shouldn't happen.  Edit : this option is not on the app... There's no menus in that folder on the app.  :{
It bothers me that 'done' doesn't actually mark an email as read. Sure, it goes straight into the Archive folder in Gmail but it doesn't get marked as read. I find that I have to use Gmail every now and then because Inbox is still incomplete but I find that these unread messages stick around and dirty my Gmail archive. I always like my Gmail inbox to have no more unread messages and this bothers me. Please mark a 'done' message as already read.
I recently switched from gmail to outlook due to privacy reasons and that outlook hasl aliases.I've read that gmail reads your emails not to mention NSA. But what are the plans for the privacy policies and the ToS? Is there an alias system or will it get one?
Yep. I'm an apologist if you are claiming the Lollipop launch was 'screwed up'. Software launches are incredibly complex things. OS launches even more so. With OS launches to consumer devices you can chuck even more complexity on that fire.  And being Google sized doesn't magically make the complexity any easier - possibly even harder as your own internal complexity is both a blessing and a curse.  So - what was so bad about Lollipop that makes it a shameful failure? Compared to iOS 7? or any Windows release? Or previous Android releases of this scale?
I am not saying they don't have parallel products, but, could you please exemplify?   Do you mean stuff like Android One? 
There is colour blind mode for Lollipop I think. 
Everyone has their own needs. Archived items should be useful in the future, not simply serve as a trash dump hidden away from my view.
well, we all know you scan all our e-mails for advertising purposes or selling the collected info to AD companies.   TBH I believe when we archive an e-mail, you are able to collect the data still. but when we delete that it will be out of question.  care to respond that? Because I really believe that is the real reason.
Thank you for your insightful comment and one that answers my question brilliantly.
That option is for Gmail. It doesn't work in Inbox (yet).
Just a comment, even though I understand your ama is complete:  I tried inbox, and where I did enjoy it I was frustrated to find using it eliminated my unified inbox.    Reverting from inbox, was frustrating for me.  I was able to eventually do it, but it annoyed me enough to remove inbox.  Even though I'm highly technical, removing inbox was very challenging and required some time to figure out.  Other people, would not be as fortunate.    If you could have this app not interfere with my regular gmail app inbox, and not interfere with my web based gmail inbox?  I would be happy to use it as a stand-alone app.  Could you add an option to allow inbox to function without impacting my regular gmail app, or web based gmail?
That's not what he said.  I work in R&amp;D for a major corporation, they probably ask had the same set of guidelines but those were probably vague.  Often this is done so that each team can implement it easier then with strict guidelines then they will tidy it up later.  It also allows them to see which implementation is more well received amongst the end users.
Like I said,  &gt; Likely, an "undo send" feature would just mean that your email gets delayed from being sent for a bit, and during that time period you can cancel sending it.
[deleted]
We are going to get signatures? I have a personalized signature in my Gmail with image plus text. However in my Inbox account the signature dos not exist.
Whereas for me that's far too late. A good example of how you can't please everyone with a one size fits all policy
[deleted]
Disable the gmail app?
Settings &gt; account &gt; Manage labels. You can set each label to have its own settings.
Yes I can. And I will :) 
Oh, well look at that. Man, you guys are quick! ;)  Thanks!
Yup, they had their team work with unfinished AESTHETIC guidelines.  How dare they!
Will there there be options in the future for customization such as themes or different backgrounds (replacing the current sun icon)?
oh yeah I'm sorry, that was on the gmail app. On inbox you have to go into the trash folder, select all the emails, then press the 3-dots button on the top right corner and choose "remove from trash"
Why even use an invite system? What's the point?
[deleted]
Never noticed that.  Thank you!
Or have half swipe actions like Mailbox.
If they do it, color would not be the only visual indication. 
Haha I'm a front end developer, I know exactly what it takes to be cross browser for modern browsers. It's not a lot of extra work. Unless they implemented a ton of new things into blink specifically for Google Inbox then there is absolutely no reason why they shipped without supporting firefox. I mean shit, you can change your UA and use inbox in firefox. 
That's because "undo send" just means "delay send". Once Google actually sends the email, you can't take it back (except maybe in Gmail, but even then there's a chance a third-party email client already downloaded it).
I have tried that and it moves it to the done folder 
Damn, well I guess this is still Android only. At least there's a way of doing it via jailbreaking, but sadly you have to do it every time you update the app, which makes sense since the location always changes when you update the app.
Just like how they removed the keypress timeout from the Google keyboard...
When will inbox work with my google apps domain?  
[deleted]
It's blowing my mind that people are still deleting emails when we have practically unlimited storage. I get that you think it's better to delete a promotional email and are not thinking of the one weird time you'll actually want to look up a promotional email to compare a sale in the past or see how often you get them from a certain retailer or something.   I think maybe elaborating on your use case of why you feel it's actually better to delete than to archive would be helpful in either determining that it's actually very useful or that it's actually solved with archiving.
Another vote for me. I won't use Inbox because I can't delete easily.
Completely agree. I don't archive. I act on and delete for probably 98% of my inbox traffic. 
I'm not worried about running out of space in Gmail (I'm at "7.86 GB (31%) of 25 GB used"), and I do probably mostly archive because I do see the value in keeping emails as a record. However...  I use Gmail's search feature a lot, and having those extra emails are only hurting the quality of my own searches of my own email.  I don't want to see every email I've ever gotten that matches the search, I want to see what matches the search of what I've decided to keep.  And, while I'm not a hugely paranoid person (I am fine with trusting Google for my email, after all), but I still will always want the ability to delete any email at any time.  Whether I'm emailing myself a password because that was the easiest way to get something done quickly, or if I want to not have certain gossipy emails in my files, or if I don't want some sensative dollar amount floating out in an archive, or for whatever reason, I will delete emails, always.  Since I want that ability, and it seems like I have my own reasons to delete maybe every 3rd or 4th email, I also want it to be easy to get to, and not buried in a menu.
I prefer delete as well in many cases. "One weird time" I actually want to look up a promotional email is typically handled by web searches and are not typically mail related.   Mostly, it causes me "cognitive dissonance" http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_dissonance to not be able to one click delete as well as one click archive. I can very reasonably make the decision in a split second as to which category an email fits in and it simply matches my mental model, and FEELS more clean/tidy/organized. It makes it more pleasurable to use the product.  Similarly, searching is not necessarily good enough, and I prefer to eliminate false hits in bacon emails versus "real" emails for the real searches I do. Edit: PS, amount of storage is not part of my decision.
I don't work for Google, but I wish I did!  ^Google ^please
Maybe the better solution to your use case is to cleanup the search (better search) rather than your work around by deleting email.  Deleting sensitive emails is different though as it sounds like that's rare.   It's a balance between features and clutter.
Perhaps your exceptional service skills will get their attention? 
I await a PM from Google with a job offer any day now.
It's really interesting, here is an article about it: http://arstechnica.com/business/2014/10/googles-product-strategy-make-two-of-everything/
Your email comes up in web searches? Sorry, I didn't understand that.  I get that as a user we want what we're used to. My point was just that maybe there's a better way to do it. Adding a feature can sometimes be clutter so it's best to add it when it's the best known solution to a use case rather than to just add it because that's how it was done in the past. Putting it under an extra menu button often allows legacy support while encouraging the user to transition to the new solution.  For searching your email it sounds like you're getting tons of unwanted results and your work around is to delete emails predicting that you'll probably never want to search for them. I solve this by refining my search rather than deleting emails I can never undelete. However, I'm curious as to what other users encounter that the same solution doesn't solve it for them.
[deleted]
This is what i came to find out! Not having native iPad app is the only thing holding me back from embracing inbox. 
Speaking of bundling, is there any chance that we can get the option to show them at different times? I want promotions showing up in the evening, not in the morning.
I use Mailbox and RelateIQ for this. 
It makes sense now. Thanks for the interesting read! 
[deleted]
I also have GNow enabled, but like I said, we don't have all the features that regular users have. 
&gt; I also have GNow enabled, but like I said, we don't have all the features that regular users have.  Read my post. I also have GNow enabled, but like I said, we don't have all the features that regular users have.
That's my point!
That's my frustration. 
You clearly don't know anything about Google Business Apps. 
Hello!  I love Inbox for Gmail and have let it consume my life. Any opportunity for a native OS X/Windows application? I would really like to see that, since I like keeping my email separate from my browser (I exclusively use email clients, so I really don't want to use the browser email site and just use Inbox on my iPhone and Airmail on my Mac).  Also, speaking of iPhone, do you have plans to include quick actions for iOS 8 notifications? Would love to reply straight from a banner or something of the sort.
Why did you enforce G+?
Right and then if any firefox bug happened, people would complain about an unfinished product if history serves us correctly. Damn if you do, damn if you don't.
Thank you for responding! 
There are several settings in the admin panel about whether "new" features should be enabled there, so businesses do have some control if they don't want things to change. Google is well aware of this potential problem, I'd say.
I don't agree. I like to have the maximum control over how my mail is dealt with. Whether it be through a complex combination of filters and labels that I create myself, or via manual work. I am one of your target users as a consumer of your product. You need to consider my needs as well. If I don't determine that Inbox is for me (and I have), then that's that. Gmail is for me. Please do not retire it or change drastically how it works.
To import and add your signatures in Inbox, you can use Gmelius for Inbox: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/gmelius-for-inbox-by-gmai/dlbjhjnahgmigifoggidegpakbcjomgg
[deleted]
I couldn't agree more to this. Inbox seems to be for people who don't read email or have any existing email triage systems. I have my own system that works just well, and I don't believe in Inbox's to-do-list-in-email paradigm. That paradigm makes as much sense as performing surgery in an ER waiting room. Email **is not** a task management system, and should not be forced to be one either. If Google wants a proper task management system it should build a Todoist clone. Or buy Todoist.
&gt; They are not aimed at fundamentally different audiences.   Internally they aren't. But externally they represent fundamentally different ways of thinking about email. Gmail leaves everything up to the user, which works well for people with their own triage systems. Inbox tries to auto-triage email, which works only for people who have no such system in place.    
that would be great. lack of "undo send" actually is the main reason i'm NOT using inbox now..
Any such option would either be ineffective or the electronic equivalent of literally breaking into someone's mailbox to take your letter back out...  If you want to delay sending it, that's much easier. Instead of hitting Send, just pretend you're hitting Send and then wait 30 seconds before actually doing it. :P
Please, do explore. The click - click - delete is the *one thing* that really annoys me in Inbox right now.  That, and the non-functional mute, but I did send feedback about that.  Edit: wrong formatting.
[deleted]
Is the feature of google inbox reminders showing up in the new calendar app not working for iOS?    I have been using the new google inbox and google calendar app for a bit and I have noticed that reminders do not show up in the calendar for iOS.  Part of the advertising is that reminders should show up in the new google calendar app.  When i open google now in the ios App, the reminders DO show up.  So i know my iphone is syncing.    I looked in the poductforums area.  I found ONE comment that may be the answer. https://productforums.google.com/forum/#!msg/calendar/M4hA1YLIang/fKBMLYyNprMJ  But that is the only place i can find that says reminders do not work in google calendar for iOS yet.      Thanks for reading.
Yes, after 30 days they're not available anymore to you. But when Google starts to remove them from their servers?
Probably never
Hi, devs!  First of all, you are cool with your Inbox. It is clean and it has ideology and style.  (excuse me for clumsy English =) )  I have several questions on using the subj (primarily via web interface) and on it's future features.  1. Have you plans to implement desktop notifications for snoozed items (reminders and messages)? For now the only ways to catch such notifications are to have Android/iOS mobile device or to look into Inbox periodically. So the notifications are pretty unusable when working only with desktop.  2. Maybe you have plans to make reminder a mail message (with own label and special header filelds) thus it can be processed via IMAP? 3. If so, what about to make reminders and snoozed messages unread in the Inbox to make them countable and to add "signal flag" to them? 4. Snoozed item caption has information about when it has been snoozed but not about when it has been returned back from snooze. Any plans to add this information? 5. Can I hope for option to lock the sidebar if window size is big? Or Stylish extension rules forever? =) 6. I understand the huge idea of "Done" (ex Archive) folder but what if I just do not want to archive tons of notifications from forums? What about plain dumb "Delete" button in message caption not hidden under ellipsis sign? 7. Any plans to implement signatures and templates?  8. Label are now folders in fact. Ok. But what about labels as labels? I.e. one or more visual textual/color sign which added onto message/chain caption, as it done in the Gmail. 9. Are Gmail "stars" gone forever? It is not very clean instrument but it is good in some cases. 10. Very-very serious philosophic question: is there any article which describes the best practices for Inbox and ideas which are standing behind it? I've found many such articles for MS Outlook but no one for Inbox.   Thank you!  Best regards!
[deleted]
[deleted]
I am just wandering are topicstarters already not in the Inbox team???
I would love this functionality - even if as a beta the automatic sorting doesn't work. For Inbox to replace a desktop mail app with 3 or 4 email accounts would be AWESOME. 
Hello,  Is Inbox by Google slated to replace the current Mobile Gmail application?  Currently my businesses emails are not coded for responsive design view in the Mobile Gmail application, but in Inbox it seems that responsive design in the mobile portrait view for a majority of devices is forced; how should businesses creating their own email vHTML for responsive design best code to have the expected view on mobile portrait vs. mobile landscape for current and upcoming devices?
I am having issues with my google inbox, the problem is when I search in the FAQ/forums, it thinks I am looking at my regular gmail inbox! Help!   My labels aren't working and I am getting frustrated, what can I do, how can I contact someone?!
I never delete email and would prefer not to have the interface cluttered with that option.  Once it is possible to delete, I'll always hesitate when I'm archiving something.  "Wait, am I sure that isn't the delete button?"  I prefer that every action (except for Send) can be undone.  That way I can relax and work quickly.
&gt; Ultimately, our users will decide.   I have honestly never seen this as the case. Historically, I'd say it's actually been the inverse to this statement. I already left Gmail a while ago, and this exact post here doesn't make me regret that decision one iota. 
[deleted]
The only think I need in Gmail (Apps) is a native/free Boomerang functionality.  FUT is good, but too loosely integrated for my taste.  If Inbox could fill this requirement I seriously look forward to it.  Also wouldn't mind having one inbox that could handle multiple email addresses (minimum work and private).
Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare Hare rama Hare rama rama rama Hare Hare
[deleted]
