How did the idea for this charger sleeve come about?    What were you guys studying towards at university before you decided to venture into making this charger?
is Delane attached? I kid.  Were your parents/friends/teachers (knowing typical singaporean parents) supportive of your actions to put university on hold for this?  ^(but really though, is she attached?) 
Do you plan on finishing your studies at a later date? 
First off, thank you very much for doing this ama! I'm a current university student who loves the idea of owning my own company some day! I have heard about some " start up horror stories" though and I'm a bit worried about what I will be getting myself into. That being said, what was the most challenging thing for you guys and what is your best advice for someone who wants to become a youth entrepreneur? 
We knew we wanted to solve the problem with our smartphones' battery life. The most straightforward way was through a portable charger. The idea really sprung from there and we tried out diff things from there until we got to the sleeve.  Check out some of our early prototypes (Photo courtesy of Liang Hwei from the [Vulcan Post](https://vulcanpost.com/109801/ampere-next-big-thing-watch-mobile-charging/)): http://i.imgur.com/0eVrCbF.jpg  One of our wackier ideas which we 3d printed was a wireless charger in the form of a book, so you could charge two phones on each page. We decided upon the sleeve because it was portable, easy to use on the go and a form people are already familiar with!  I was studying Industrial Design, Mark Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering and Kenneth Business. So we think we've got a pretty kickass team ;) -Delane
What did you study?
Don't you think 2700mAh battery capacity is a little low? Especially compared to XiaoMi's 5200mAh, 10400mAh, and 16000mAh battery banks that are so affordable.
What are your thoughts on Romelu Lukaku?
Have there been any major setbacks in your endeavors? And if so, how did you overcome them?
See elsewhere! I was studying Industrial Design, Mark Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering and Kenneth Business. So we think we've got a pretty kickass team ;) -Delane
[deleted]
Choco boco loco toco. Dothraki?
Coke or pepsi?
My phone by itself has 3600mAh
&gt;put our university **on hold**  Was this pun intentional?
We frequently console ourselves with the phrase "that's the startup life". I guess most recently, we realised our initial costings and Kickstarter funding goal had been set too low, and we were at risk of cancelling the Kickstarter.  Solution? HUSTLE. We went back to every contact and every business card and found investment to pull us through. So we live to fight another day!
Yes.
What sets your product apart from other similar devices? How does the efficiency compare to that of a standard wall charger?
Teh Peng. (http://supermerlion.com/kopi-teh/)
Agreed, do you have any plans to up the capacity? Also, do you have any plans to bump it up from 1.2A to 2A for faster charging?
"thinly veiled"....it's a complete marketing pitch for their kickstarter campaign.  
As another college kid who wants to do that, how did your parents react? 
How exactly did you go about getting this into mass production after getting the funds? Did you just approach a manufacturer or did they approach you for business? 
What's the difference between this and something that's already on the market like the Sony 5k mAh portable charger I've already got? Looks like there's already a ton of products on the market that support the qi wireless standard and right out of the box my nexus 5 and experia both worked on it. Are you using the Qi standard or something else altogether?   edit:  Just read the details of your kickstarter. Looks like this is basically a qi charger sewn into a sleeve? What are the dimensions? My concern would be maybe my nexus will fit but my wife's note wouldn't.
True. During product development we consulted lots of people and there was always a struggle between greater battery capacity and "I need this to be slim and sexy or I won't bring it out". For people who need large battery capacities, we figured XiaoMi already caters to them pretty well. For those who aren't satisfied with their power banks however, because of looks or inconvenience, we think our product solves the problem of getting you through your day.  But thanks for your thoughts on our product. We're continually working at it. Do you already use power banks by any chance?
This isnt a new fucking thing   EDIT: I invented a new shape of lightbulb, well call it the Pickdickle. Sign my kickstarter.
Someone went through an downvoted everything :( they hate us because they anus?
Wireless charging produces a lot of heat.  Wouldn't containing the phone within an "insulated" sleeve potentially cause overheating issues?    Also known as: "phone hot pocket"
A flop this season, way overpriced and needs to buck up his game and start scoring for the toffees -Kenneth
Yes. We figured we'll help some people out with their questions while spreading the word about us. The great thing is, the part about our product is completely optional information ;)
How are the three of you not finished university at 22? 
We were actually thinking that. But could you link us to a wireless charger in the form of a sleeve? We'd really appreciate that information.
What makes you different from companies already selling items like this?  http://luxa2.com/productlist.aspx?c=9
The guys served two years of military service in Singapore.
This is so lol. From their website;  "It began when Kenneth emailed an entire faculty searching for the next Elon Musk."  Because obviously to start a company you first need to find the next "insert hottest tech ceo here"  Kenneth, delane, &amp; other guy. Why are you lying to yourselves?  This is just a fucking portable battery.   You don't really care about products or innovation, you just care about having a "start up"  You constantly refer to yourselves "as a start up", that's a huge red flag.   I would never invest in a "start up" that cares more about their tshirt design than the actual products.   
That's still about 175% capacity. It's surely not nothing.
Our marketing mastermind Jared came up with this spiffy comparison table (https://s3.amazonaws.com/ksr/assets/003/121/498/373f73e7ac186eb5133b92ce72c32433_large.png?1420789893) but for the most part, it's just much nicer to look at and use.  It's not as efficient as a quality wired charger. I'd say efficiency is about 70-75% with most other Qi Wireless Chargers. The form factor of the sleeve helps ensure optimal alignment though, which helps with efficiency.  EDIT: See elsewhere. Update: http://i.imgur.com/Yeq9Jc8.png Better?
Thanks for the quick response, I hope you guys do well.
LOL -Delane  It was hard to get their support initially. But we proved it with our passion and determination when we won our first competition with a prototype Mark made from disassembling other products. -Kenneth
I'm curious as to which phones are supported by this. From your kixkstarter page I noticed that it was the main groups of phones like the galaxies, notes, and I phones. Are other phones supported or is there a way to get them supported? For example I have the oneplus one and it doesnt look like I'll be able to charge it with this.
In a world filled with wasted energy and environmental destruction how can you support something like wireless charging that is so inefficient compared to just using a cord?
"That's the start up life"   Anyone who refers to themselves constantly as a "start up", or who asks for $ online but then wastes it on tshirts is a big red flag.   
Well at least yall are up front about it...  Something something Rampart
Are you one of their mothers?
I think you're a little harsh, but you make a valid point. These in your face advertisement AMAs are really becoming a joke... 
[deleted]
What did your family think about that, especially putting your studying on hold?
True, but I can get a batterybank with over 22000mAh for cheaper than this, that can charge two phones simultaneously.
What range does the charger have?
[deleted]
Sooooo, have any of your parents disowned you yet? 
Did anyone disapprove of your decision?   How did you handle this negativity?   It's awesome what you've done. Thanks for taking the time to do this AMA!
what do you think different in hardware based product company and a software based one like Facebook?
Will this product be more effective than the battery packs available in the market? 
We have very conflicting opinions on what it'd be like to have Emma Watson as our mum. -The guys
I like the comparison, I also like how honest you are on it.  I am not a marketing guy, but as a consumer I feel like the "Distinctive design - looks and feels unique" is somewhat disingenuous, and kind of rubbed me the wrong way.  It just sounds like the soulless marketing garbage you hear from so many companies.      Couldn't you mention something along the lines of the materials (it looks like it is leather?), or maybe the fact that it also protects your device (it looks like it doubles as a cover?).    What do you mean Compatible with &gt; iPhone?  I feel like that line could use clarification.   Also, what does the High - Medium - Low mean at the bottom of the image?
How do you think you will be able to future proof your new products? Technology is ever changing and I am wondering how you are going to keep up with the changing times and make sure it works with future mobile devices. 
Thanks for the compliment on our tshirt design! Anna will be pleased.  In all seriousness, we do get a little try-hard sometimes. But Reddit always lets us know.
[deleted]
It seems that the young 20's are the hot ages for "young" entrepreneurship these days. As a 23 year old now with no experience in anything remotely entrepreneurship related, what's the best advice you can give me if I wanted to pursue it? Are there particular classes I need to be taking (business, economics, etc) is there any connections I need to be making already? 
Please tell me you own a successful startup.
that fits in your pocket? 
Im pretty sure that 1000mA is just 1A not 1kmA. was confused as hell trying to figure out what is 22kmAh short for 
Are you hoping to operate independently long-term?  Or is your goal to get bought out by Apple/Google/Samsung once your product develops a substantial marketplace?  If the latter occurs, will you go back to school?
That's pretty rad! I like seeing all of the prototypes that eventually culminated into the final product. I take it that the phone needs to have the hardware for wireless charging built-in for this to work?   Indeed you guys do have a pretty kick ass team covering the essential fields for this venture. Good luck with this and hopefully there will be even more novel ideas coming from you guys in the future. 
True. I'm not saying it's for everyone. I have a 13,000 mAh battery pack myself. Im sure there's a market for it though
How much will it cost and what are your calculations?
[deleted]
Do you think with the aversion to bulky cases for phone (or in the case and many people I know the complete lack of casing your phone) having a bulky case which requires additional actions to access your phone over the protective cases that include peripheral batteries is a weakness or carrying more weight provide you with a strength or weakness in the mobile phone market?   Also with increasing battery life in phones and availability of cheap power packs, to the point that Budweiser was handing out 2700 mAh ones in cases of beer, how competitively do you think your product is priced?
Well, she didn't say yes! 
[deleted]
you earned those downvotes!
Do you discriminate against hiring people who are not from Singapore?
For the current Kickstarter, we declared ourselves as production ready, which means we're sticking with our production plans and partners. Which also means we won't be changing the battery capacity for this run. But we definitely will look at squeezing more battery in there for future iterations. The USB output is at 2A, so it can power tablets, although you're unlikely to do that for long with a 2700mah capacity.
There's a lot of people, especially college students, that have "cool ideas". What were the steps you guys took to get out of that sitting around phase and actually get to work on a product? What advice would you give to someone wanting to get out of that same phase of just idea-spitting?
&gt; than 1 phone***
When do you think your product will hit the markets and what makes your product unique?
&gt; It was hard to get their support initially. But we proved it with our passion and determination when we won our first competition with a prototype Mark made from disassembling other products. -Kenneth  
Well it differs from component to component. But as novices, we felt it was right to work with an experienced industrial design firm called We Are Perspective, from the Pezy Group, who sourced some of our partners for us. There are others that we found, and others who found us! Our fabric manufacturer, for example, contacted us through our website.
Let me ask you guys this profound question, do ya all like Fish Sticks?
Good way to field a super negative and loaded question.
What transmitter chip do you use?
Does every company have to have a completely unheard of product? That would be nonsense.   A startup is a new company. Just that fucking simple. They've made good strides so far and I'm 99% sure you don't have your own startup.  I have 4. None of them are new ideas but 3 are profitable.   Am I not an entrepreneur because I'm not Elon Musk? The only person kidding themselves is you.
70-75% would be on the high end.  Did you actually do any calculations of efficiency?
It's just a dumb joke. I don't think you're supposed to think that they're serious.  What's a red flag about referring to yourself as a start-up? It's appropriate nomenclature for a certain type of business in a certain phase of its life.  Though I haven't looked the website so I may just be making points that I would actually disagree with if I had.
[deleted]
Shut the hell up you ball of jelly. They've already surpassed their kickstarter goal and only have a few days to go. Let them make their money.
Do you consider a tool kit for iOS devices, which will make it possible to put the receiver pad inside the case of the device? I think it looks fairly ugly to put the receiver pad at the backside of the device. 
Be fair /u/TemperPuss. I think you've never worn a novelty tshirt. It's a brilliant conversation starter at every event we attend and pays for itself. Just ask Delane how many guys have tried to ask her what's novelsys... on the bus.  Plus, it's hard to believe but there are people out there who actually like us and what we do... and they really appreciate the free tshirt.
The entrepreneurial game is real. Good luck to you guys. Problem is that there are so many start ups for unique power banks. Lithiumcard for example, is very unique. Credit card form and outputs at 2A with a built in cable. Still, hope you guys do well.
Will you provide future options if the client does not want a cowhide case for reasons such as being vegetarian?
But that's Emmat Watson!
3900mAh master race checking in!
He probably couldn't even start up a lawnmower.
OP will surely deliver
Take a look at your surroundings, what you do, and your life. Then catalog and determine your pet peeves and gripes with aspects, develop a way to make it easier or something you won't ever have to have issue with; then sell it because there are probably a million people with the same annoyances/issues/problems. Usually the businesses that do well create something called disruptive technology where they change that way something is done to the point their product is preferable over the competition (think Uber).
You'd be in fourth year at 22 assuming your DOB is before April. Even still, any sort of co-op or change in course plan will usually have you graduate at 23 assuming the best.
[deleted]
[deleted]
It would. But we've been testing it inside the sleeve and outside the sleeve. The temperature has remained within acceptable levels. We did have an issue while testing with charging Ampere and charging your phone simultaneously for hours on end that led to us burning one prototype up. Now that was overheating.  This is a very common question though. What do you think is a good way to "prove" this? Would a timelapse video of your phone charging, with an app to monitor temperature, over the course of one night, help?
What's your favorite pizza topping?
Many of my lecturers have said that the best time to start a business is when you're young and still studying. I typically debate with them and say that if anything it's a lot harder despite being in an environment where idea generation is more likely to happen.  I see and am glad it has worked for you guys! Do you think the philosophy is overall true or is it more feasible to start your own business later in life?  Also Kenneth at least Lukaku was a better buy than Balo ;P
[deleted]
 RAISE YOUR HOPES! 
Doesn't the phone get too hot being charged in a sleeve?! 
For real. I see a ~~bit~~ lot of skepticism in this thread, but I literally had to grab a charger and find an outlet at the bar I was at last week. Something like this would have helped me out.
Why have you focused on so few phones, including horrible receiver hacks, whilst ignoring all the WindowsPhones that have built in Qi charging?
&gt; Just ask Delane how many guys have tried to ask her what's novelsys... on the bus.  Sounds more like a conversation starter to try to pick her up.
Will you be making/selling a patent for the item? What do you see yourselves doing with this product in the future?
Hmm, ok we'll look at fixing that graphic. Yeah we were referring to the leather on Ampere, we're rather proud of that because it was originally to be PVC, but we managed to secure a top-grain leather supplier.  EDIT: See elsewhere. http://i.imgur.com/Yeq9Jc8.png
Doh
Would the little charging dohicky fit within a case? More specifically, could I use it with my lifeproof case?
Have you guys considered going on shark tank? Because it sounds like you guys have a good product here. 
&gt; What do you think is a good way to "prove" this? Would a timelapse video of your phone charging, with an app to monitor temperature, over the course of one night, help?  That sounds good.
&gt; The temperature has remained within acceptable levels.  What do you consider to be acceptable levels?
The elusive kilomilliampere-hour
Hell yeah, tell that stupid....gelatinous...ball? That's what we're going with here?  Alright. Cut. Somebody get the writers down here, we need to make some changes to this script. Ball of jelly. I mean seriously. Who wrote that? Did Miles write that? That seems like something Miles would've written.
Looks nice. Great job.  What sort of patents do you own? A design patent on the sleeve itself would be huge. Also, is the plan to liscense  the product  to a larger company? 
Did you guys all work on a project together in college or something?
Did you also try to put the sleeve in your jeans' pocket and let it charge? 
[deleted]
Freudian Slip -Delane at the guys
How do you think consumers will like your product.? Have you tested it with people yet?
how are you approaching manufacturing. How do you know how/where to manufacture it? is this part of a University project?
How does a battery case not have "wireless charging on the go"?
What phones are you making this cover for?? I would love to have one for my LG G2 because they only made wireless charging for the Verizon variant of my phone 
Presumably they are using the ones set by the phone manufacturer (at least I hope they are).
How does it feel to be rude enough to put an university on hold for that long instead of just asking them to call you guys back?
I think /u/TemperPuss is arguing the opposite there -  &gt; "It began when Kenneth emailed an entire faculty searching for the next Elon Musk."  &gt; Because obviously to start a company you first need to find the next "insert hottest tech ceo here"
I don't understand... why would I want this? Also, seems suspicious that this is hitting the front page...
It just seems like a waste of $ since you're already asking people online for $.   Okay sure maybe a few people will ask about the shirt irl. Is it really that effective? Are you going o wear it everyday?  Are you selling shirts or technology products?  Shouldn't you be focusing 100% on the product at hand?  If you actually made a good product, you wouldn't need to wear tshirts for people to learn about it. 
The OPO is not officially supported. Getting a generic microusb receiver like this one (http://www.amazon.com/Universal-Wireless-Charging-Receiver-micro-USB/dp/B00H7FJX7M) might work. We can't test them all so no guarantees though. We need to test to ensure efficiency + build quality of the receivers + alignment with our sleeve.
The commercial on the kickstarter campaign shows people putting it into pockets (further insulation). You would definitely benefit by showing timelapse over a significant amount of time in insulated situations. 100 degree temperatures, inside pockets, inside black leather purses, etc. It has to accommodate a significant number of different situations, and you have to prepare for the worst. A timelapse video on top of a night stand in 70 degree temperature won't show much because of such low heat. If people buy this, they will need to see they can let it bake in the summer sun. 
I mean...isn't that the primary goal of all publicity? Isn't /r/IAmA Reddit's designated publicity sub? Won't Mila Kunis' appearance tomorrow be a thinly-veiled advertisement for Jupiter Ascending?
[deleted]
they're on reddit so they're special.
It's a little worrying to trust them with charging my battery with a pretty large oversight like that...
You linked to a website with a list of power banks, one of which is a snap on case, which is the closest, but still not the same. Do you've a direct link to a sleeve-style power bank that luxa makes?
Heard of you guys beforehand because of reasons ;)   So you guys actually did put uni on hold. I was wondering how on earth you guys can manage, coming from personal experience (am dying right now).    So I'm quite curious what led to the decision to put uni on hold and how did you manage on carrying out that decision, maybe you can share on how you handled personal obstacles like expectations on yourselves, how you managed to break off from ingrained societal expectations as well as external pressures?
What were your inspirations for this product? What a great idea!
Is the charging sleeve compatible with the Nexus 6?
Yeah, why don't you go ask her out on a date?
Do you have an email address I can contact business related?
Hopefully, but even then that varies by manufacturer (and device) - how many devices are they testing?  It's hard for me to believe that wrapping an iPhone in a TPU case and then a leather case on top isn't going to cause some sort of thermal issue - if not immediate, then one which could reduce the lifespan of the device.
I mean what is the difference?  Is the point is that this one can still fit in your pocket?  The big drawback of that is not being able to use a case on your phone.  My question was mostly about, why is this more useful than any other power bank.  What will make customers buy a sleeve over a normal power bank.
How will it effect the longevity of the battery if the user has to continually removw the phone from the sleeve for usage?
See elsewhere for a generic comparison! We are using a Qi charger sewn into a sleeve + bluetooth LE module + android/iOS app  There are two dimensions at the moment. One is for the Nexus 5, another is for the Note.
Did you come across any new tech you guys would had loved to use but found it cost prohibitive or not far enough into development?
So what's that successful company that you started?  Oh right, you didn't even try.  But you're complaining about three people who are still at university who are trying their best.
ELI5: How does wireless charging work?
My phone usually lasts me two days or more, so I would only need a battery bank for camping or other activities away from civilization where I'd carry a backpack anyway. Other people might use their phones more excessively.
Going to throw in my response here.  I own various power banks. Ranging from 1000 mAh to 22,000 mAh.   Your power bank looks interesting, and even a cool concept, with some really nice features, which wont be found in other power banks.  That said, I'm not sure that your asking point of $60 - $70 is fair, given that I can get a 22,400 mAh battery with a 2.3 amp output for about $35.   Your wireless charging charges a device 4 times slower than a 2.1 amp usb output (as reported by you).  It is impossible to use the phone inside of the ampere sleeve while wirelessly charging, and outside of it's sleeve would probably be fairly painful to use, short of leaving it on a flat surface. At which point, why not just use USB? And if you've then settled on USB, why wireless charge at all, if not to conserve space, and reduce wires.  **TL;DR:** Probably a pretty cool product. May even be very successful. Would be nice if the screen were exposed inside of it's sleeve. Price point is very high compared to other power banks, but may be fair among "truly wireless" power banks, I'm not sure.  EDIT: (Had one too many zeros in 22,400)  EDIT EDIT: (Just fixed a typo)
Can I have a million dollars? 
~~I like to put fish sticks in my mouth. -Delane/Mark/Kenneth~~
Most technical degrees take 4 years, so unless you go into university at age 18 straight after school and take no gap year (unusual these days), finishing university at 23+ is standard.
[deleted]
 Also trying to mislead by using 2,700 for their product, while using 3,3k for the other... Wouldn't thrust them either.
Seems only Delane was asked. Were Kenneth and Mark asked about Novelsys too?   I would totally ask Delane to give me her t-shirt on the bus. 
[deleted]
Yeah, I think that's the target demographic, and what their other comments have indicated. The focus group that they consulted with said that most power banks are prohibitive due to their size (Edit: size, inconvenience of requiring a cable, annoyance of getting stuck in a pocket...et al), thus the reason they set out to make a sleeve (which is also why these are a mere 2700mAh).  That's their thought process anyway. This will be desirable tech for on-the-go folks that don't stay in one place for too long, but do use their phones a considerable amount. So they can stow (charge), and go.  I don't think the sleeve will necessarily prohibit the user of a case, per se. On my past 4 or 5 phones I religiously used the Otterbox Defender cases. The thought being my phone is an investment, and when I move on to my next one I always eBay my old one, so i want it to be in excellent condition. Turns out I don't really need a ridiculously bulky case for my phones. I got a really low-profile case (made by Spigen, found on Amazon) for less than $10, and it came with a screen protector. It's done a phenomenal job protecting my phone at a fraction of the cost of the otterbox cases.  I don't fit the demographic these guys are targeting, and I'm assuming that you don't either. I'm at a desk all day and my LG G3's battery life is the best I've ever seen on a smartphone, and I've battery packs/charge cables at the ready if/when I need them.
We hadn't considered that! It's awesome when stuff like this happens. The carbon-fiber is a legit alternative though.
1) Take out the "Distinctive Design" row. It's way too arbitrary  2) Don't switch units under "battery capacity". Its dumb
[deleted]
How can your hardware be used in medical field ? Such as cardiac pacemaker with wireless charger
BRB (24 hours later...) [SPACE RESERVED FOR EDIT]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
How efficient is it?
how many units have you sold to date and how many orders do you have of future units. Also, what does it cost to manufacture one of these and what are your profit margins?
[deleted]
[deleted]
iPhones don't have Qi though, which is weird. False advertising, or maybe they're including a Qi insert for it? 
&gt; Hell yeah, tell that stupid....gelatinous...ball? That's what we're going with here?  "Jelly" is slang the kids use these days that means "jealous". He's implying that the OP is only mad because the people doing the AMA have made a shit-ton of money and he's just sitting here on Reddit complaining.
That guy gets it.
&gt; Just ask Delane how many guys have tried to ask her what's novelsys... on the bus  "Just ask the cute girl how many guys will use any reason to talk to her on the bus."    How many people have asked YOU what novelsys is on the bus?  
[deleted]
[deleted]
The confidence on display here is phenomenal.  Definitely impressed by your willingness to put up a serious test on the spot like that.
Actually I think the idea behind amphere is pretty good.. Trying to bring portable wireless charging in a convenient and stylish to smartphone users in a nice package... Just a thought.. As battery technology being the next frontier of smartphone evolution.. And battery capacities being larger for every new iteration of smart phones... Would you think that wireless charging would be more suitable for home or stationary use rather than for someone on the go? Given that wireless charging is much slower than the wired option? especially so when power banks are readily and easily affordable? i just feel that the target market for amphere in my opinion would be very niche 
What kind of music are you making your university listen to?
Can you please make a companion app for Windows Phone?
&gt;Would a timelapse video of your phone charging, with an app to monitor temperature, over the course of one night, help?  It would help, but you need to remember that if the phone is in a pocket then you've got body heat and an additional layer or two of fabric to take into account.
[deleted]
Is Mark single? I would totally love to go on a date with him! ;)
I have a Nexus 4 and recently had the opportunity to test out wireless charging at an airport charging station. True to the reviews on the internet, the phone either did not charge at all, or oscillated back and forth between charging and not charging even when I was not touching it. This happened with the protective case on and with the naked phone lying on the charging pad. I made sure the phone was perfectly centered inside the circle on the charging mat and even tried it with phone slightly off center to see if that would help. None of that got the phone charging.  Questions:  1. What, if anything, was I doing wrong?  2. If it's not operator error, what is your opinion on why the Nexus 4's wireless charging feature seems to suck so badly for so many people?  3. Do other phones have wireless charging hardware that is usable by average nontechnical people? (i.e. working reliably even when the phone isn't perfectly centered and is inside a protective case)  4. If so, how much do you estimate that adds to the non-contract price of the handset?
Why did you choose Qi over A4WP?
What? Practically everyone here is advertising.
If you have the ability to tell the phone to charge, surely you have the ability to make it stop charging when it's fully charged.
Mother fucking magic
Oh yeah, AND you're only making them for Samsung phones and iPhones, so I've decided to spite you regardless!  Kidding, of course. I realize you've gotta start by debuting the product for devices with the biggest pieces of market share - hopefully you're successful and do end up making 'em for the G3, as I'm sure eventually my battery performance will dwindle, and THEN I'll have a legitimate excuse to add that fancy shmancy sleeve to my gadget arsenal.  Good lucks guys (and gal!)
Where do u see yourself in 2020?  How is a typical day for you guys?    (Btw, U guys r cool! )
Jumping on the negative karma train. Choo choo
I love Shark Tank so I'm gonna ask the one question they always do, how are you guys a start-up company and not just three people with an idea? You make and sell Ampere, then what? Where does the company go from there? In short, what are your long-term plans for your company?
[deleted]
How did you get funds for your early prototypes? I mean..before crowd funding.
I raised something else.  (   ) 
[deleted]
How much did reddit charge you to get to the front page with no upvotes or comments? 
What kind of ambient temperatures are you going to be testing at? In the tropics room temperature could be up to 30 deg Celsius or even higher. 
Nobody needs your investments TemperPuss. You sound like the biggest Debbie Downer out there.  Good luck to the crew - I better see this bitch in stores soon (or online at least).
I work at home, for myself, for over 4 years.
Hey! Which University do y'all come from?   Do you have trouble getting people in the business world to take you seriously because of your age?    Delane: Which pageant(s) did you compete in? I compete in MAO. =)
Lifespan of the device? As if most people kept their phone more than a year or two. 
If this is meant to be a consumer product, make sure to remember consumers are complete idiots who **will** use it incorrectly and find holes in the most idiotic way possible.
Thank you.  Just because something is evidently self-promotional does not invalidate it's merit on a sub like /r/IAMA.  If it's opaque, subversive, etc., then that's a problem -- but if it's a transparent Q/A to raise awareness and engage with the community, then it's a fantastic and fitting opportunity only made possible by something like the Reddit platform.  I get annoyed by the /r/HailCorporate crowd that attacks underfunded/homegrown projects by true Redditors, but gives a free pass to the gauntlet of heavily-promoted AMAs by celebrities just here to promote their multi-million dollar projects.
Ever considered creating a portable laptop charging sleeve?
How do you know how much they make? Is your job being a psychic?   *user claimed to make more than previous two commenters combined while laying in his bed.*
oh...
It's a smart approach to look for the sharpest tech guy you can find and get him to start a company with you.  I joined up with the smartest guy i know and we've got www.rentobo.com. 
Enough talk of advertising and more questions about......RAMPART.....
[deleted]
[deleted]
Refurbished Mophie Juice Packs are wonderful.  I spent $40 on two of them about three months ago. When the one on my phone either dies or has been on it for about five hours (whichever comes first), I swap it out. Also at other sensible points in time, like right before I walk out of the door.  I've plugged my phone into the wall a solid three or four times since December, and I think it has died once. Each of those is a very exceptional circumstance, of course.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Would like to know where you got these high-end powerbanks. Am interested in getting one and the ones I've had so far all failed (either not/not fully charging, battery not by any range meeting expectations etc)...   What are you using and where to get it?
Easy solution: Temperature sensor and automatic shutdown.
The pictures on their kickstarter show iphones with a Qi pad taped on the back, not really an elegant solution if you ask me.
You didn't visit their Kickstarter page
They said 70% of the other wireless chargers, not 70% efficiency in relation to total draw.
you guys seem alright.
Hey guys congrats on pursuing your dreams! Takes guts to quit school and push forward.    I have one question: regarding the cell-phone charging tech industry, are you worried that the actual cellphone industry is almost moving against you? As most cell phones that get released every year flaunt longer battery life does this pose a threat to long term business plans?
I'm interested in the Ampere but in my opinion that focus group feedback seems doubtful. Prohibitive due to their size isn't really a problem these days especially for low capacity powerbanks. The one that I linked below has 3000mah capacity and costs $20.  http://gaspull.geeksaresexytech.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/power.jpg  http://www.amazon.com/Photive-3000mAh-Portable-External-Smartphones/dp/B00BFY59BA  Is this size really prohibitive?
Did you ever take them off hold? 
What phone do you have? And I thought my 3000mAh battery was huge...
[deleted]
For real. At first glace, you see 2,700, 22, 3.3 and 4 - which makes it look like their product is waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay ahead of the others - but it's not, it's actually the least.
Favourite country? 
As phones batteries are beginning to last longer and longer why do we need your product?
I don't really "get it". Why would j want this product? It seems small capacity and inefficient. Yeah its neat that you can do it I guess, but it feels like a step back for the sake of saying "ooh pretty"; it's really UI over UX, as it were.
How would this be easier to use than a portable phone charger? Would it have more power to charge a phone/device faster and/or for longer periods of time?
What do you think of Eto'o leaving?
Im sure it would, but the question is to what degree? Over charging your battery shortens its lifespan, and so does letting it get too low on charge. We know that these actions have a minor, but collective  affect on your phone. The question is how much damage does this extra heat produce versus the damage most phone users do to their phones on a daily  basis?
[deleted]
From the video I saw on your site, It made the process as simple as putting the phone in the holder. Seems like a very interesting idea but my thoughts were that it might get a bit irritating having to fumble about every time a heavy cellphone user gets a call.   I was also thinking about how I have a little case that fits on to my belt/pants to securely hold my phone. Which brings me to my main question,Would it be feasible for you to incorporate your device into a product like that? I personally wouldn't buy your product because I think having to take it out of my pocket, And then another little cubby would be annoying and might make me miss some calls. If I were able to replace the holder on my belt though and still charge my phone, I'd be all over it. 
RemindMe!  1 day
Jealous is the wrong word though as he's not afraid they're going to take something of his, envious is the correct word to use (wanting to posses something someone else has). *The more you know*
RemindMe! 24 hours from now
Also Blackberry! 
I am still in University and a couple of friends and I were were working on starting up. But there were a lot of conflict of interests and we disagreed on things and it's on hold for now.  How are important decisions made among you three? Are there a lot of arguments? If so, how do you resolve them?
Why create a sleeve instead of a case?
See that makes sense. All I have to do is go to work and I'm at 30%.
Did I read that right -- a 10 hour charge time? 
Why do you think it's SOOOO notable that you've put your "university on hold"? You've got some type of romantic notion of what it means to be an entrepreneur or something? That university/education is worthless because hey, I can make money inventing some worthless product? If everybody had a healthy, liberal education (which yes reddit, includes the humanities), we'd have a better world filled with more perspective. But go ahead! Chase those dollars. Charge those phones. Great. Great.
[deleted]
I am more concerned about how the higher temperature, despite being acceptable to your standards, would hurt the battery life on my phone.
I cant wait for OP(s) to deliver on this one
Your criticism is warranted. Our only defense is that Jared knows nothing about electronics. Which is why we have Mark and his team and don't let Jared anywhere near the factory.  Is this better? http://i.imgur.com/Yeq9Jc8.png Let me know and I'll update the Kickstarter page. -Jared
My phone will go a month without charging if I'm only using it for texting and not making long calls. I don't understand why y'all rely on life saving devices that die so easily. 
LG G Flex
Then buy a power bank. I had similar issue with my windows tablet, phone and 3ds at school. I was really unlucky this semester and it seems like most of my class doesn't have outlet on the deks. I received my power bank yesterday. It's rated at 11200 mAh (I  got about 10 000 mAh when I tested it) and in total it cost me 25$ CAD.  Wireless charging will also have more loss over it so really you are better with a small usb cable.  I wouldn't say that their product is worthless, certainly not consider they attained their goal, but it's clearly a niche.
Not to be negative, but what does being 22 have to do with anything? It's not like you're 13- you're adults. Why point it out?
What year were you when you dropped out? Did you finish your 2 years of general ed and start taking classes in your major?  How do you pay your bills currently? 
Why would someone want your product instead of a power cell? What are your sales like so far? Or are you still prototyping? 
Annnd saved to my Amazon wishlist. Thanks internet stranger!
Don't you think your Kickstarter is a little misleading? Only at the end you make it clear that you need a receiver stuck to your iphone's back in order to use the sleeve. The video suggests you'll only need to put your phone in it.
&gt;We're here to answer any questions you might have on youth entrepreneurship, hardware manufacturing, and crowdfunding.  I have a question about all 3. Where do you start? Do you first try to gather a team of like minded individuals? How would you recruit them even with a concrete idea? Do you go to the investors first? A mentor? Advertise on craigslist? etc  I guess a better question would be to ask you guys how you all met and decided to work together on this concept. What were the steps that followed regarding finding investors or getting capital in general? How do you approach manufacturing? Is it in-house, external?   Sorry for the barrage of questions, I'm just really curious. 
Not an Everton fan, but anyone can see he is not worth the trouble.
everything about this campaign is super pretentious.  their so called marketing mastermind Jared needs more buzz words. Jared you forgot to use "social media", "gluten-free", "non-gmo", "minimalist".      backers of this project are going to be extremely disappointed. 
Could you please share the bill of material? I'd like to see which manufactures you guys are working with!
RemindME! 1 day
This is a good start but pending the temperature difference (if it's more than a few degrees of difference) I'd also like to also see long term data.  The biggest non-cycling-related stressor on modern Lithium Ion batteries is heat. It's the fastest way to reduce the usable life of a cell without actually subjecting it to vigorous charge/discharge cycles.  If a phone has a mfgr temp limit of 140F, it does not mean it is acceptable or good for the battery cell at all to sit at 139F for 4-8 hours every night. It just means the phone has been certified to not start on fire, break completely, or cause 2nd degree burns to a user if you leave it on a beach towel in the blazing sun for a couple hours one afternoon.  But what happens when you do that *every* day, for 4-8 hours a day, for a year?  What does 6, 12, 18 months of your charging mechanism's extra temperature exposure do to the battery life and other performance aspects of a brand new phone, as compared side by side to one that is charged traditionally for the same amount of time?
At the moment it's only patent pending on the design of the sleeve. And the plan at the moment is to deliver a great product. If we get that right, everything else will fall into place.
Maybe more tech-savvy people don't, but I know plenty of people with phones older than a couple of years.
Remindme! 1 day
What's the purpose of ble?
What made y'all decide to use a sleeve? Why not some sort of innovative clip on or a new stylish case? I like the idea of a portable versatile charger but a sleeve limits the size of the phone you can put in it and I don't know if I want my phone in my pocket inside of another pocket...
[deleted]
It's also against reddits site-wide rules and gets you shadowbanned from nearly all the other defaults.  But hey.
I haven't had experience with wireless charging for years. It was one of those toothbrushes that sat on a plastic base. The interference was dirty as hell, working with wireless communications I had to unplug the thing. If this is still an issue, does the fact that this is in a sleeve alleviate the issue?
Nooooooo! I had this idea in my notes a month ago!! I guess great minds think alike eh?
I emailed an entire university cohort of engineers asking "who wants to be the next Elon Musk???" 4 people replied, and of those, Mark was selected. Mark met Delane at an International Relations class. It was a chance meeting, but it worked out so well. Couldn't ask for more amazing co-founders. -Kenneth
I didn't. 
The high - medium - low refers to the color scale on the checkmarks. Saying yellow check marks are best, grey check marks are mid range and white check marks are shit.
I have a note 3 and a spare battery which is pretty slim and portable (compared to the phone at any rate).  Any time I know I'm going to need my phone all day (and charging is an issue) I take it with me.
What background knowledge did you guys have before beginning this? How do you go about starting something like this,  and when did you get to the point of realizing you're going to delay University? 
8. What topics are and are not allowed?  Crowd Funding - AMA submitters that include crowd funding campaign links must be eligible for an AMA without the campaign for it to be allowed. Additionally, the focus of the AMA must not be the campaign. The final decision on eligibility rests with the moderators.  ....Alright then.
OnePlus One has 3100mAh; non-removable, however.
What charging technology do you use?  Magnetic resonance or induction? 
how did you come up with the idea to do portable wireless charging?   going from dc&gt;ac&gt;dc cant be very efficient. 
&gt; Our only defense is that Jared knows nothing about electronics.  Why is he not running these figures past someone who would know then? How much of your marketing is actually run past Mark's team before releasing for public consumption? Could the backers of your product, therefore, trust what's advertised on the Kickstarter page to be anywhere *remotely* close to what's delivered as the final product?  It seems as if there's a pretty major disconnect between what happens in the engineering lab and what's crafted up in the marketing department.
RemindMe! 1 day
Ok, thanks. Yeah, it's not elegant, but apple doesn't want Qi in their phones, so it's the best they can do. Most people with iphones have a case anyways that will cover it up. 
As someone who only follows Serie A, seeing the whole Sampdoria debacle right now is a joke. HE REFUSED TO TRAIN! WTF ETO'O.
Because the case has to be physically attached to the phone for it to charge it. Yeah it may be convenient and portable but it's not wireless. 
Not sure if it's entirely intentional but that's a solid point too.
[Full phone compatibility list on our Kickstarter](http://bit.ly/amperekickstarter).  **Ampere is compatible with:**  * iPhone 5, iPhone 5S, 5C, 6, 6 Plus * Nexus 5 * Samsung Galaxy S4, S5, Note 3, Note 4
I highly suggest a more honest comparison table. The way the table is biased (as pointed out by many others) can very well hurt the integrity of your brand. If a category to be compared is not going to be favourable to your product, I would rather you ignore it than make up false or weird qualitative comparisons.
Competitions (which pay for entry into more competitions) + Government Grant + Bootstrap (we don't draw a salary)
[deleted]
One more question, were the stuff that you learnt in uni applicable/useful for your start-up? any examples?
[EC Technology - 22400 mAh Battery](http://amazon.com/EC-Technology-22400mAh-Capacity-Flashlight/dp/B00FDK2G2C)  Great experience with this one so far, I've had it for about a month. Includes flashlight, and 2.3 amp USB output. (Recommended use for the 2.3 amp output is for tablets. Works on my nexus 5 just fine though.)  Also includes 1 and 2.1 amp outputs.  [LUXA2 - 10400 mAh Battery](http://www.amazon.com/LUXA2-10400mAh-Capacity-Portable-Battery/dp/B00K7Y2GX8/)  Owned this for probably 3 months, very reliable, and has a good efficiency. Includes 1 and 2.1 amp outputs.  [SHARKK - 15000 mAh Battery](http://www.amazon.com/15000mAh-Portable-Ultra-High-External-lightning/dp/B00JOG0948/)  I've owned this one for probably two months now, equal in quality and efficiency as the luxa2. The overall feel of the powerbank is pretty awesome, and does reflect a "rock" like texture. Includes 1 and 2.1 amp outputs.  [Intocircuit 11200 mAh Battery] (http://www.amazon.com/Wirecutters-Pick-Intocircuit%C2%AE-Smartphones-Lightning/dp/B00BB5GR0A)  Great size, much smaller than expected. Includes 1 and 2.1 amp outputs. Efficiency is meh, I get a little bit more charge from my luxa2 which reportedly has less mAh. If you want size, get this one.  EDIT: Added clarification
Ill buy one
Much fairer, nice to see a proactive approach to criticism.   Your figures have changed by the way, is that because of new information or did you make a mistake converting them? I thought it would be 2,700 22,000 3,300 4,000 mAh, no? 
I have the power banks you are talking about and they are heavy. Like, backpack or messenger bag bulky. This is targeted at purses, cargo pants, and pockets. Totally different market and application. 
RemindMe!  1 day
Remindme! 1 day
yep, i feel the only way to get on /r/iama is to be selling something, be a part of a movie, or be advertising something...
Anker Astro. They're not light or thin, though. Great for long trips on trains and airplanes where you have a backpack. 
That's misleading. I don't have to do anything with my charger case except press a button. Insofar as there being no traditional wires, 99% of people would consider that wireless. 
[deleted]
Emma Twatson*
RemindMe! 25 hours from now
Seems to me like you guys are taking a very good approach. It's clear you've put tons of time and energy into the product, and if you've also put a lot of energy into how you're presenting yourselves, that's awesome. Constantly, there are a number of brands that have shown just how important marketing and presentation is, so the above criticism seems a bit naive. 
Who the fuck said anything about gelatine, you swine? This son of a bitch is Kanten algae jelly.   *You*, on the other hand, seem to have been anally investigated by some big time Hollywood hotshot selling you dreams of calling "CUT" on a set someday and seem to have come out of the experience feeling like you've gained some insight through means of a suppository. I would say don't take this the wrong way, but it's quite clear that my opinion has probably already entered your rectum. You shhwine!
4kmah :D  remindes me of homer https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e6T4OMBaoWM 
[deleted]
Are you Miles? You're Miles aren't you?
Was it... Dongers?
you mean he knows nothing about the metric system. 
[deleted]
RemindME! 1 day  
I bought [two of these](http://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/B00BN42G5Y/ref=oh_aui_search_detailpage?ie=UTF8&amp;psc=1) 11200mAh batteries and they've been holding up ok.  Says I bought them Jan 21, 2014 -- so almost a year of occasional use.
EDIT: Deleted
Wow that was a fast response.  The graphic makes a lot more sense now and seems more honest.  I wish you the best of luck!
Your post reeks of hubris and /r/lounge.
RemindMe! 1 day
No Greg, *I* know that, and, *you* know that, but the question is, will our *target demographic* know that? Come on guys, you can't just put a bunch of stupid shit you heard at the bar into this script and think it's comedy gold. Fuckin' Miles.   Can we all agree on cutting "ball of jelly" and replacing it with "Mr. Poopface"? Let's keep this rolling, the crew's gotta rehearse in less than an hour. 
RemindMe! 1 day
Your posts just reek. You beautiful human being.
How do you know so much about electrics etc without going to uni?
Kind of my thought as well. It's a lot to carry around. The charger alone is like one and a half phones. A woman who carries a purse regularly might be fine with it, but I travel light. Hell even my HTC One gets annoying at times when I'm out and about. Carrying something like this, just isn't going to happen. Hats off to them though for what they've done.
Looks really interesting. Would you be able to provide any measures for the sleeve, and some additional information such as weight? It's probably somewhere, but it's been a long day :)
Considering that as humans, to reduce our impact on our environment and conserve resources, we can do a combination of 3 things:  1.  **Reduce population**:  less people means less consumption and less necessity of production, thus conserving resources and reducing waste production on all fronts. However, population reduction is not a politically correct method so we must go on to the next one. 1. **individually consume less of everything**:  less food, less energy, less cars, less AM crunch wraps, etc.  This will reduce the necessity for production of goods and energy and reduce the consumption of natural resources and reduce the production of waste.  We could also add making goods more durable so they need not be replaced so often.  Recycle and reuse more.  However, considering that much of the world economic is based around consumerism this is all economically unfavorable and extremely unpopular.  Therefore we must move on to the next one. 1.  **As a whole, become more efficient**:  More energy efficient appliances; more energy efficient energy production i.e. near theoretical limits; **transmit energy more efficiently**; produce food using less water; recycle/reuse more efficiently e.g. the process to reclaim plastics/metals from [junked vehicles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3YOf9xtfXk) needs to be improved;  this is a goal of engineering design in the first place and is only every promoted via government regulation or via customer demand.  So, knowing the responsibility of all engineers and scientists to design with the future in mind, how have you taken into account 2 and 3?  Waste heat generation adds to the already staggering increase in inefficiency of energy transmission for the convenience of a sleeve. Also, the generation of heat seemingly adds to the degradation of electronics to continue the cycle of consume a new phone every 18 months and now....maybe less.  What are your thoughts? i.e. is the waste heat generation a battery issue or something that your technology could change?      
[deleted]
So perfect for marketing. 
Are those sleeves water proof? Or what happends when it gets in contact with water?
RemindMe! John Lennon. 
Okay yeah. But it's not universal. Granted the sleeve isn't either but it has more capability than a case for a specific phone. Also. Most charging cases are bulky as fuck. Don't respond with "mine isn't." I just said "most" not "all."
*What was it like l create this product in university, especially as young creators. How easy was it to start up at the age you are in and what inspired you three I join forces to build this device?  *What are your favorite colors?
As someone who is somewhat business savvy, I wouldn't avdertise that my competition puts out a better potential charge capacity. (If you absolutely have to keep it on there, make the comparisons for the competition, averages, instead of maximum charge capacity.)  I would instead focus on the "slim" aspect as that seems to be your key selling point outside of a new utility for charging.   You also may want to include more humor, it really helped me as a potential buyer want to read the rest of the infographic.  (Look at the part of the graphic with the old spice reference.)  :)  
First of all - I have a photive power bank and I love it!  But similar to the OP of this comment thread (and myself), you're obviously not the target demographic for this product. Is the size prohibitive? Probably not. It's just the fact that now you're carrying a separate power bank which you have to connect via a cord. What if you want to pull out your phone for a quick glance and you have it plugged in? Now you've got this power bank getting caught in your pocket. It's a nuissance.  What you're paying for with the proposed power sleeve is convenience without annoyance. Yeah, you'll still have to slide your phone out of it, but it's definitely more convenient. That's the gap that this product addresses, and there are people (obviously) that will pay for a product that addresses this.
Maybe you should pay attention to school and not use your windows tablet, phone, and 3ds?
[deleted]
Hi Delane, I know you and your brother personally. Hint: I'm chicken backside. Personally I'm quite surprised to see Novelsys here on AMA, let alone trending. Keep it up!   What would be the expected price of each unit when it hits the market?   Can we expect the product to be sold at IT shops?   Any ideas how you can take advantage of the SG50 fad and influence locals to support?   Favorite ice cream flavour? 
RemindMe! 1 day
RemindMe! 1 day
[deleted]
Are you open to letting companies order to brand it themselves? This would go great for VIPs.
RemindMe! 1 day
[deleted]
[deleted]
Wouldn't really surprise me if Apple decided to side with a standard other than Qi either, especially since Samsung backs the Qi standard. There are a few wireless charging standards competing at the moment, a bit like VHS and betamax a few decades ago.  Edit: Looks like the Apple watch will have wireless charging on board, and it'll be using magnetic resonance charging instead of inductive like Qi.  http://www.eetimes.com/author.asp?doc_id=1323836
That's the joke.
You website said you are an award-winning startup. Which awards have you won?
[deleted]
Which brings me to another thought.. heavy phone users who need extra power use their phones more, so they'd be out of the sleeve way more often, not charging the phone.  Coupled with the fact that Qi charging is much slower than direct connection, not sure how useful this is going to actually be in practical use.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
RemindMe! 1 day
Same with my galaxy s5, super convenient. Much easier than carrying around a battery pack and cable, and somewhere to hold them. 
RemindMe! 1 day
I am a 17 year old student who wants to study computer science, do you think this would be a good field to get into if I'm interested in this type of work?
Thank you for answering! 
so shady...
Well generally because of the linear nature of the most important methods of heat transfer for commercial electronics (convection and conduction) you can stat that the temperature of a component will be ambient+a fixed value. If any reasonable ambient+ that fixed value is less than a critical value (perhaps the melting point of the plastic you're using) you should be okay.
[deleted]
No, it was HyperLaxative
[deleted]
RemindMe! 1 day
[deleted]
This is a tremendous idea and looks very well done. Best of luck and keep up the great work!
So glad somebody said it. Keep those dongers raised my friends.   Sincerely- A member of the big dick club, God bless
You caught it! Well, I guess everyone knows there are options out there with bigger battery capacities so we decided to just be frank about it. We still think there's a strong reason for our product to exist regardless.
On hold implies that they intend to pick it back up. There was no implication that it's worthless, and it actually might solve a few issues with our society if more people received liberal arts educations after becoming more secure in their lives. A lot of my friends are getting college degrees without knowing why, and are probably going to complain that their degree is worthless when they graduate and have trouble finding jobs because they don't realize that education has more value than quantifiable data shows. 
Sometimes jokes use exaggeration 
Nothing wrong with this (and nearly every Ama) being a pr stunt, but by that token, nothing wrong with pointing it out either.  It's not a secret.
RemindMe! 1 day  
RemindMe! 1 day
Will the sleeve come with a charging sleeve for the sleeve? 
less cords means less eventual mass.
RemindME! 1 day
ReMind Me! 1 day
Is this is just an extra battery pack?  Edit: Does a down vote without an answer mean yes?
[deleted]
So how is a wireless charging pocket superior to regular cable charging? It seems like it would be less efficient due to resistance, more complicated, and more expensive. 
&gt; 2) Don't switch units under "battery capacity". Its dumb  Its straight up not a good move to have a "battery capacity" line when your product doesn't win. It would have been better to have like "Full day phone charge" or something else that shows all three products being equal (or his better). 
RemindMe! 1 day
It seems to me the phone case is meant to act more as a holster for your phone, in so that when it isn't in use, it keeps itself charged. This idea seems incredibly handy to me, seeing as I don't like bulky cases and I don't have a need for enormous amounts of extra battery life. However, I can see the desire for screen access. But if you need/want the phone to be charging inside of the case, then traditional power banks are probably your best bet. The Ampere seems to delivering something different, and is certainly an interesting product.
they still don't think of themselves as adults.  Hence the drama about stopping studying and such.
you need to account for body heat and layers of clothes.  
So now we just plug our phone into the charger?
I'm not saying it isn't a joke, i get that people say jelly, i'm just pointing out it's not the correct word, you know, hoping somebody could learn the difference if they didn't already know, not sure why that's looked down upon.  Exaggeration also makes no sense, where does exaggeration come into it, jealousy isn't an exaggerated form of envy. Nor is jelly an exaggerated form of the word jealousy, i don't get it what you're saying.
Why not develop something truly revolutionary?    As of right now, I can go online to FastTech and get the Qi insert which fits under the battery cover of my Galaxy S3 and a Qi charging pad for less than $20 shipped.  FastTech just so happens to be in the same city which you say the parts are sourced from on your Kickstarter.  This leads me to believe you're just rearranging something that is already available to the general public; that you've taken something that does not change the thickness or outer appearance of my phone, and made it bulkier.  I see no advantage to this product.    How do you address my statements?
[deleted]
your username is giving me daniel tiger related flashbacks.  
My 3DS can lose it charge without even using it. There's seems to be an issue with the sleep. I also most of the time forget to charge it, considering that I have at least 2 hours of transport each day, and multiple hours of pause, you can see how its 4 hours of battery life doesn't works well for me.  My phone replace my 3DS when that happens. I do charge it everyday but I also use it through the day.   I'm a software engineering student, my tablet is also my workstation. I never have issue with its battery life but there's times where I use it at home not plugged and then the next day I'm near 30% and I need to be careful.  And now I lost 10 minutes explaining to a stranger why I need a battery... That's probably a bigger waste of time than anything else I did today.
[deleted]
[deleted]
RemindMe! 1 day
[deleted]
RemindMe! 2 days "charger"
The entry for Power Bank was yellow while their side grayed out. If anything, they drew attention that their compeititor was better.   It was a typo anyway  But i still wouldn't  thrust them too. They're guys, and i consider Delane as a friend
You should make a new post in /r/technology or something with the video. Almost no one is going to remember to check this thread tomorrow.
This guy gets it. Not that guy
RemindMe! 24 hours
Have you had difficulty getting distribution?
I have a photive powerbank as well, guess that addresses that!  I agree that I may not be the target audience, but I was generally surprised at how far people would go to classify something as inconvenient these days.
Those heat fades man
Temperature sensor, please! If it gets too hot, it shuts down. Then give a few prototypes to third parties and let them record how long it takes them to ruin your prototypes.
RemindMe! 1 Day
This thing isn't going to be able to even fully charge a Nexus 5 once  [Math](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2ur5rb/we_are_three_22yo_who_put_our_university_on_hold/cob0tl6)
Considering the amount of money you would lose for college and the risk involved, what drove you all to take the decision to put college on hold?  Oh, and United fan here!
What are acceptable levels? My S5 gets super hot with standard charging. 
RemindMe! 1 day
We've experimented explaining about the receiver in the video, but found that it confuses more than it helps. We tested and found that it was best to introduce that information when someone was checking to see if Ampere was compatible with their exact phone model. We're pretty upfront about it.
Isn't 2,700 mAh low? I'm not that familiar with battery chargers, but my failed math seems like this is a one-use item. If I charge at 2A/5V seems like the charging sleeve is going to be toast within a couple hours. Enough to charge an iPhone 6 once maybe.  How are you going to charge two devices in a case like that? (like my pun?)
If you still have to ask them this question after they've just made $76K in sales on kickstarter and already have a manufacturing output that can handle those sales in the next four months, you clearly haven't been paying attention during shark tank.  Their next step is retail, find companies willing to put it in their store and then put it in there.
If this is a success are you *really* going to go back to uni?
why even bother asking? it should be assumed. r/IAma is one big advertisement and has been for years.
I tried a wireless charging battery bank once. I was able to get around 40% of the internal batteries' total energy capacity into my phone (Nexus 5). Say this one is even 60% efficient which is pretty good for Qi, that means you're only getting 6.2Wh into your phone. My nexus 5's battery has a capacity of 8.74Wh. That's less than one full charge on a phone with an already miniscule battery.  **Math**  2700 mAh battery  3.8V  Energy stored = 2.700*3.8 = 10.26Wh  60% efficiency gets you 6.156Wh into your phone  Nexus 5 internal battery  2300 mAh  3.8V  Energy capacity = 2.300 * 3.8 = 8.74Wh
RemindMe! 1 day
A Wireless Charging network across the country, then the region, then the world. We want to power the world.  See: Juice
So this is basically just a Powermat but now you slide your phone into it instead of setting it on top of it?   And I assume you would still have to charge the sleeve somehow?
[deleted]
RemindMe! 1 day
[deleted]
&gt; We did have an issue while testing with charging Ampere and charging your phone simultaneously for hours on end  Given that issue, why not just turn off the wireless charging while the phone is plugged in?
Our product goes to 11.
You are absolutely right, your product needs to exist, I wasnt saying it shouldn't.   Just wanted to throw some friendly advice your way since your company seems receptive and open to constructive criticism, not a lot of companies are willing to acknowledge their own faults.  I was just saying from an advertising perspective, you dont want to flood the consumer with alternatives too quickly before you establish your brand identity, because it could lead to some consumers buying a different product, that wasnt made by your company.  As far as exposure, have you introduced the concept to social media, big box retailers, or even go as far as ABC's Shark Tank?   I don't want to be "that" guy who stops at every turn to critique, forgive me if I sound too blunt; I just like giving advice to people who will listen. :)
[deleted]
Lots of people do.
We have tested it. People like it. The main concerns are: battery capacity, looks and price.  Kickstarter was our attempt at global product validation. From cities in the US which rely on public transportation and commutes, to those that don't and would rely on car chargers, etc...
Have you guys filed any patent for the wireless charging tech you're building? Or has it been built with existing know-how?  On a completely different note, Delane, you're pretty!
crosspost to /r/gifs for maximal exposure!
Will you guys add the ability to charge by the sun later on? Or, even better, you guys can find out a way to recharge the battery by heat! You guys can install small heat pipes imbedded inside. When either the battery for this device or the phone heats up, a small amount of energy can be produced, much like in the way geothermal plants produce energy. I gotta get back to you on that.
Jesus dude
Are they water and... Stain proof?
...and this is why you got my upvote.  (So I own like 1/1000000 of your company now right?)
You're going down the Apple route basically. Pointlessly low capacity, no doubt the highest cost and you're going to make up for it by making it sexy? What? 
Don't forget to record room temperature.
[deleted]
It should be pretty apparent that this sub allows self-promotion (or whatever convenient term you'd like to use for it). Almost every celebrity that comes in here is promoting something.   I don't get why reddit has such an infatuation with calling out people who are clearly self-promoting, but are also genuinely engaging the community about various other topics as well. Related or unrelated to their topic. I mean, people who are obviously abusing the self-promotion potential of /r/IAmA get called out pretty quickly and get downvoted anyway.
I think you need a power bank intervention.  I just got the Nexcon 10000mAh with built-in solar panel yesterday.  Geeking out here.
Do you really think you can make it with your product? I mean, its just a battery inside a sleeve.
I was going to originally ask how the heck you guys could drop out (put on hold) college to try to be entrepreneurs with no money, but then I saw your Kickstarter, damn!    So my second first question is, how did it get started?  I'm assuming you guys had this idea while you were still in school, and then decided to focus on it a lot more.  How much money/interest had you gotten before you cut out classes and decided to devote all of your time to developing it?  If it takes off, are you actually planning on going back to finish school, or will you just take the money and reinvest it to develop more products now that you have a successful business?
Now back to your charger, NOW BACK TO ME! THE CHARGER IS NOW DIAMONDS!
bunch of gay fishes making wireless charging sleeve then eh!
Your math is wrong chief.
That can be implied that you're saying older people still in uni is  stupid. 
[deleted]
And those people would likely find little use for the product to begin with.
I can't seem to find the answer to this anywhere... But is this MFi approved? The lightening wireless charger, approved by Apple for use on iPhone?   Looks good, hopefully it can replace my low capacity powerbanks :) 
Hilarious you've got two downvotes when that website is the coolest idea i've seen in a bit. Any chance you're hiring for marketing or logistics? My majors are in Operations Management and International Business, I graduate in the Fall.
[deleted]
&gt; What do you think is a good way to "prove" this?  Put the phone through real-world scenarios, then log sensor readings.  Here is an app to log the readings:  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fivasim.androsensor&amp;hl=en  This is a real concern and not something you should take lightly.  My phone gets quite warm sitting on my desktop Qi charger at comfortable room temperature.  And now imagine that the phone is resting in a car in direct sunlight while on a road trip using GPS (which by itself makes the phone hot), or in a purse or pocket on a hot day outdoors.   You need to really run this device through the paces before selling them.
RemindMe! 1 day
I suggest you remove the grey and yellow check-icons in "battery capacity" so it just states the different battery capacities
RemindMe! 1 day
So for real, you single? 
They have someone doing marketing. That person cares about tshirt design. These AMA responders seem to care a good deal about the product. Your mom is a fucking portable battery, you dope.
Your Kickstarter page says that Ampere has a battery life expectancy of 2 years. Does that mean we can expect the Ampere to stop working in 2 years?
I'll be honest that's a weird reply. If you're going for the joking route that particular one didn't came out well.  Sorry to see that the mods seemed to have removed info/links about Ampere down - as people obviously seemed interested. Next time just keep the crowd funding separated from the AMA and I bet it'll organically happen via a comment/respond link from the community.
[deleted]
RemindMe! 1 day
RemindMe! 1 day
Double whoosh man.   Exaggeration can be used humorously, to make jokes. For example, let's use the joke "your mother was so fat she gets stuck in the doorway".   Is your mother that fat that she literally got stuck in the doorway? No, I'm just exagerrating your mother's weight. It's a joke.   Jealousy and envy are very related. Many forms of jealousy is envy taken to intolerant/extreme levels.  Ergo: he's so envious, he's jealous. He's jealous, so he's jelly 
True story. It's our bad. Do you think if we remove it the mods will forgive us? We were only following the templates of other AMAs...
How fast can you count a spilled box of toothpicks?
How do your wirelessly charge the iPhone? Or any phone with out Qi? Or whatever wireless charger you're using? 
Agree with you. Incredible amount of bitching in this thread. I think they've done a great job!  1. It's a fashion driven device that is meant to fit in your pocket and look nice, not optimized for hardcore battery users.  2. It uses leather rather than cheap plastic  3. They are 22 year olds that are just starting their first company. Most folks at that age still live with their parents and work at McDonalds. These guys have actually taken an idea and commercialized it and dared to put their asses on the line. Way better than most people.  4. They don't have economies of scale like Xiaomi with multi-billion dollar bank accounts and VCs pouring in money. It's 3 newly graduated high school students. It will be at a premium when you do a kickstarter. If the first campaign proves worthwhile they might be approached by a bigger chain that can order 100,000 units and put it in every phone shop in the U.S. then you'll probably see 50% reduction in price. For now they are doing what they can.  5. When you invest in a kickstarter campaign there is always a risk... risk that the product isn't as great as promised, it is the first iteration... its the plight of being an early adopter.  So much for people trying to do something they believe in...   
Were your parents supportive about this idea, or did they just want you to finish University first? 
And the specs they use are shit. I can get a 50000mah power bank for $80. My battery case is 3200mah and the wireless charger power bank i used to use worked fine in my pocket with nothing holding my phone to it.
Has your engineering background been useful in making the product? Do you think you could have still made it without the knowledge you gained from your degree?
Its a tough call. I'll contact the mods and ask them what to do to get the AMA back on track.  http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA  I get that its a bit annoying that celebrities etc. are allowed to promote their wares here but not Joe random - but unfortunately that's the rule of the game and it does make sense to protect users a bit.  Another thing you can do is to try again in a month or so (the campaign ends in 9 days) and let it be a completely separate thing from any type of crowdfunding event. (Even indirectly building an email list of interested customers can be worthwhile).  Good luck!   
Why did you go with the following titles?  * Biz Wizard * Design Extraordinaire * Engineering Prodigy  Granted there weren't any ninjas or rockstars, but come on... I thought we were done with this nonsense.
I wasn't talking to the one who made the joke though was i? i replied to the guy explaining what jelly means, saying it's the wrong use of the word, i don't get what's difficult for you all to grasp *i know it's a joke*, i was trying to help people learn something for a change instead of contributing to another shitty joke thread of comments.  Better not even try next time.  I didn't woosh at all.
RemindMe! 1 day 
Nice unnecessary insult (and movie reference) asswipe, but you missed my point, i understood completely, i just wanted someone to learn the bloody difference for once, fuck me right?
Get an Anker. They do a variety of models, prices are average but the quality is great and their customer care is second to none. I don't know anyone that's failed to get a warranty replacement despite some rather dubious damages.
when can you build a self drying, speaking, wifing, phone charging jacket?
Why was this removed? I actually wanted to read about it..
The solution is easy but how many people would want to get a portable charger that's likely to fail? When you don't have a portable charger at all you plan for low battery and you're prepared for running out of battery. But when you have a portable charger you expect it to work because that's how you make the accommodations.   And if I don't expect it to work, why would I get it? 
RemindMe! 1 day  
Usually somebody else asks before I can.. But what?
Better idea
Much better. Thanks for listening
&gt; RemindMe! 1 day
OP. Pls deliver...
I'm scared. 
[deleted]
Why do you think your devices will actually grip a hold on the market and not fade like most other fads? Wouldn't a charging phone case be just as useful and cheaper? Why do you think you will make something that picks up? What makes your product any better than the abundance of shit that floods the market?
What are the dimensions of the product? It looks kinda big - rather than slim and sexy. How big is it?  This 10,000mAh charger is 81x20x140mm.   http://luxa2.com/Power_Bank_Solution/142/TX_P2_10000mAh_Wireless_Power_Bank/product.htm (but it doesn't have a sleve like yours, but I guess if you put this in a leather sock...)
I've never heard of a kilomilliamp.
This guy gets it.
not only tech-savvy but also tech-jelly. People that want to be seen with the newest gadget, regardless of whether or not they have money to eat. Point being, in a year or two both of those groups switch to new-better-shinier and could give a rat's ass if an aftermarket product stunted the life of the phone they are discarding. 
I would assume a lot of the technology would fall under existing patents. Have you already gotten permission from the patent holders?
RemindMe! 1 day
Then downvote the thread instead of jumping into it?  I for one am interested, which is why I am here.
I don't know what that is supposed to mean.
Excuses are like assholes -- yours stink.
Well I'd hope they would be willing to do a heat test on a product that they hope to sell to consumers... I'm surprised they don't have that worked through as of yet. Kinda a big deal.
[deleted]
Lol such an original idea! 
I'm a Debbie downer for pointing out reality?  Maybe.   But this post is a joke.   This product is nothing special.   I'm 100% positive they are paying for this spot on reddit 
How many girls have PMed you their jugs?
Really?  Early 20s, "start up", dropped out of college, these are all just buzz phrases into tricking you into thinking this is a real company 
No you weren't. There are no pictures or photos showing this attachment.   Your whole MO of this product is sleek charging.   Yet you have to plug something into my iPhone at all times.. &amp; it only charges if the iPhone is in the sleeve case.. Is this a joke?  Having that attachment on all the time is useless bulk &amp; probably makes 99% of cases useless. Plus it looks ugly with a plug sticking out.   A power bank is smaller than this case &amp; packs more battery. Plus I could still use my phone while it charges! Unlike your case.     Me having to put my phone in a case is no better than having to plug a cord in my phone. In fact it's worse a lot of ways. 
Will your market share go up or down if you upmodulate the salience of negative information associated with your product? Think about it.
[deleted]
Ah good point. 
Except that there was really nothing wrong with using the word jealous, and to suggest otherwise come across as pedantic.   You don't have to risk something taken away from you to be jealous 
I wasn't trying to be pedantic but infer whatever you want, i was trying to be accurate, [i'm actually correct](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Envy#Comparison_with_jealousy), people use the word jealousy which is fine, it's easy to see their meaning even if it isn't the right use, all i was saying is it *isn't* the correct word to use and was trying to educate but oh well, todays society simply use them interchangeably.  Jealousy is the *fear* of it/them possibly being taken away, generally by another person (classic scenario of a guy friend who likes your GF and flirts with her in front of you for example as she laps it up), something, someone, doesn't matter.    
... No really, it wasn't incorrect at all. .  1. jealous resentment against a rival, a person enjoying success or advantage, etc., or against another's success or advantage itself. 2. mental uneasiness from suspicion or fear of rivalry, unfaithfulness, etc., as in love or aims.  noun, plural jealousies for 4. 3. vigilance in maintaining or guarding something. 4. a jealous feeling, disposition, state, or mood.  You're insisting that only the third definition is acceptable, but by the 20th century all the definitions are widely used in modern parlance. 
[deleted]
Firstly, i never said you were incorrect so i don't why you would even conjure that, we're *both* correct, that's the point.  I know they're all used, it's kind of exactly what i just said, i wasn't incorrect, just because the words are used interchangeably doesn't change the fact they both denote two distinctly different scenarios.  "Jealousy is an emotion, and the word typically refers to the negative thoughts and feelings of insecurity, fear, and anxiety over an anticipated loss of something of great personal value, particularly in reference to a human connection. Jealousy often consists of a combination of emotions such as anger, resentment, inadequacy, helplessness and disgust. In its original meaning, jealousy is distinct from envy, though the two terms have popularly become synonymous in the English language, with jealousy now also taking on the definition originally used for envy alone"    "Envy is an emotion which occurs when a person lacks another's superior quality, achievement, or possession and either desires it or wishes that the other lacked it"  Like i said in my previous comment, they're used interchangeably now but used properly you can actually explain the scenario in which you're jealous/envious about, because they both have specific usages.   
Oh alright, then, but your very first comment:  &gt;Jealous is the wrong word though as he's not afraid they're going to take something of his, envious is the correct word to use (wanting to posses something someone else has). The more you know  It's outright claiming that the guy you replied to was wrong, when he wasn't. Your comment made it seem like only your cherry-picked definition of the word jealousy is allowed to be used, when there are other definitions that are acceptable.  The "the more you know" can unintentionally come across as condescending too. That's also part of why I mentioned earlier that you came across as pedantic, when you didn't mean to at all.  Sorry, I have a weird habit of explaining stuff to ppl who got downvoted, especially if I feel they don't really deserve the downvotes.  And allow me to me pedantic about allow words to be used differently from the original meaning when in modern parlance. I'm still butthurt about how people insist that it's okay to use "literally" figuratively, so I'm acting out now
It can be used, but it has no specificness, envy is the more accurate word to use because you want something someone else possesses, they're not perfectly interchangeable words, for example you can't say envious in the 3 person scenario i mentioned earlier because it would imply you want to be the guy talking to your own girlfriend, or want to be doing the talking, or want her to react that way when you do it etc.  But that's not what you feel, she's already your girlfriend, the feeling you have is jealousy, fear that she's enjoying the guys advances, or fear she will ditch you and other horrible thoughts.  I didn't mean to sound pedantic with 'the more you know', it's a popular expression on the internet, derived from PSA's from the late 80's [that ended like this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GD6qtc2_AQA), i was joking around, people usually say it on the internet after saying something boring/unimportant but informative.   Didn't mean to rustle anyone.  
dat edit
No they don't. Maybe some of their comments but their core post and opening statement is front paged 99% of the time, even for people that le reddit army goes on a rampage against.
[deleted]
Today OP Failed us
You didn't deliver :(
Apologies. The reddit mods deleted our thread without any reason/ contacting us, so I'll be posting the video directly to our Kickstarter page instead. But I'll share the video with you guys once its on KS.
OP did not deliver...
