[deleted]
[deleted]
Hey Professor Tim! Two questions:  + What are your views/thoughts/feelings on net neutrality?  + What are your views/thoughts/feelings on the modern internet?
How hard is it to realise how much you've improved the world?
Do you remember your first thoughts, or words, when you achieved the first successful communication between a Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) client and server? 
[deleted]
Sir Tim,  1. Network Neutrality is obviously a hot topic right now, but in this relatively nascent age of cloud computing, what kind of security concerns are being overlooked? Security attacks like the ones on Home Depot, JP Morgan, and Sony expose customerss information and its hard to know what the average person can do about it. Is there anything besides the obvious (secure passwords, dont let websites save your credit card information, etc.) that a normal user can do?  1. As a computer scientist/programmer/tech enthusiast, what can I do to get involved and improve computer security and the quality of the internet?  Thanks for your time!
[deleted]
Do you have to share your internet royalties with Al Gore?
[deleted]
Hi Sir Tim, Do you prefer Android, Apple, or Microsoft?
If you could stop memes from being invented, would you?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Thank you for doing this AMA.  To what extent did you believe the World Wide Web would grow? Has it surpassed your prior expectations or did you always know the potential it had to expand as it did?
What role do you think virtual reality will play in our future?
What was it like being in the Olympic Opening Ceremony?
What did you have planned for the World Wide Web when you first invented it?
What led you to the idea of creating the world wide web?
How do you think the web will change when it's available free, everywhere?
[deleted]
If you could go back and change how HTTP was implemented, would you change anything? For example, would you change the TLD to be first in the URL, before the domain name, subdomains, and arguments?  This is often cited as a great problem in making URLs clearer to end users.
I know you're being flooded by complicated questions, so here:  What's your favorite color?  Edit: clarification
What has surprised you about the internet?
Hello! Two questions,  1. What's your current view on A.I? What about V.R? 2. What were you thinking when the Web finally became a reality, many existing protocols and connections working with each other. What was rushing through your head? 3. What's one surprising use of the internet that never came to thought while you were working on building the WWW.  Thank you!   
Beyond the partisanship of the decision, do you suspect the FCCs implementation of net-neutrality will ultimately be good or bad for the internet?  Given how dynamic the www is and how stagnant bureaucracy is how can the two coexist if, ultimately, the ruling stands?
Why is it impossible to find the very first version of the first web daemon? Earliest that's been found is version 3 as far as I know, on an old FTP server.
If you could give any word of advice to a high school student that's interested in technology  what would it be?
[deleted]
Making technology more human requires it to interact more closely--and seamlessly--with our lives.  As we enter the era of the Internet of Things, how do you envision addressing the security and privacy concerns associated with remotely-accessible devices in all aspects of our lives?  Do you feel that, e.g., HTTP+SSL is sufficient, or do you see new protocols and architectures as a necessary step in improving security?
[deleted]
For a really long time people were talking about Web 2.0--can there be a 3.0? Or is the connected reality such that the web is a basis for all technology to play with?
You are my favorite scientist. Your invention has benefited the lives of billions of people across the planet. Case in point: it gives me the chance to communicate with you at this moment, something that will probably never happen in the physical world. I am very much fascinated by the Web and I hope to pursue research on this topic. Currently, it seems that the social media is its most influential aspect. What do you think will be the Web's next biggest contribution to society?
What is one question you wish people would ask about but never do? What answer do you have for them?
Could have you patented the internet and sold the idea? If yes, then why didn't you? Or did you?
Hi Sir Berners-Lee,  My question for you is... What issues do you have with the current web-based systems that we use, and how would you fix them?  Cheers,  Cam
Hey Sir ~~Berners-Lee~~ Tim,  In your opinion, what is the most important thing that has to happen to make the Internet free from censorship and surveillance? Are the most effective solutions technological, or political?
Did you anticipate in the very early times that all video, music and entertainment would move to the Internet? 
What do you think of the FCC's recent decision on net neutrality?
When do you think Semantic Web will be generally implemented?
Probably not the most important question but - what's your browser of choice?
Thanks for doing this. Do you consider that we are living a new era since 1991? How do you think it will be called in history books in the future? Information age?
When I'm streaming music and videos from the internet, am I releasing data from my usage to the cloud?
Do you still do any web development yourself nowadays?
Are you concerned/excited with the inevitable onset of Artificial Intelligence and its impacts on our everyday lives both at work and home?
What do you think is the current and future status of the Semantic Web as you envisioned?
[deleted]
What are your thoughts on Marshall McLuhan, and his Global Village idea specifically?  
Do you think we have to choose between all the "Big Data" driven technology (gathering location, tastes, habits, vital signs) and privacy? Or can they both co-exist?
[deleted]
How do you suggest that the average person get involved in protecting the web?  If we don't code, don't have money to donate, don't have powerful friends, etc?  I feel like those who most rely on a free and open Internet are also those who have the hardest time having their voices heard.
What do you think of modern web applications reliance on scripting languages? 
Hi Tim!  Quick one but important:   What is the single most valuable thing I can do on an individual level to help defend the open internet?
If technology is to serve humanity, but humanity enters (willingly or otherwise) into a relationship of exchange through a form of encapsulated interest with technology (and stakeholders, designers or powerful individuals behind such) which often includes having to surrender our rights to privacy, data and so on, is it possible to realise an outcome for all that is truly pro-human? 
Dear Sir Tim.   Any predictions for what will be in HTML6?
When was the last time you said to yourself "Christ, that's not what I invented it for!"?
Professor, Did you foresee the psychological changes that instant inter-connectivity with almost every other person on the planet would create?  I am seeing more and more how the internet can make society do insane things very very quickly (black&amp;blue vs white&amp;gold?)  or in recent cases, the events of the rising Police State and the rising deaths of unarmed black men causing nation wide protests due to the INSTANT transmission of knowledge to everyone.  These changes to communication have altered humanities way of thinking and it is interesting to watch it happen. 
With the developments about internet users' privacy (or lack of) online, what would you recommend we do? Do we stand up to the government, or get around these problems with encryption etc?
Sir, What's is your opinion on the web used for malicious purpose? How much should government try to intervene? I am particularly repulsed by slave trade and child pornography or exploitation in general. (somewhat related to net neutrality)
What year do you think the WWW (now mostly called "Internet") became a true household word? A thing that most people knew they needed and had to have? 
Does your status as "inventor of the World Wide Web" eclipse your personality when you meet people?
Hi Tim!  - Do you regret not building more security into your initial designs? If so, what additional security measures would you have implemented?  - How have you benefited personally from being the person to invent the WWW?  Thanks! 
What do you think about WHATWG?
Do you think the internet has made culture more uniform around the world?  We can worry about keeping up with the Jones', *and* the Lee's, the Srensen's, the Okonjo's, etc...
Do you think the direction that technology is heading is the right one? If not, what do you think we should do about it?
Hi Sir ~~Berners-Lee~~ Tim,  In his 2012 book _Cypherpunks_, Julian Assange wrote, "the Internet is a threat to human civilization." He was referring to the great potential for surveillance and control of people. To what degree do you agree with that statement, and what can we do to ensure the Internet of the future supports life, freedom, and autonomy?
Nice username! :) 
What is your oppnion on the trend of cryptocurrency on the web in the past few years? Do you believe ii will really revolutionize this world?
Sir Tim, are you optimistic or pessimistic about the future relationship between technology in general terms and humnakind?
LOL that was witty :D
An honor Sir Berners-Lee. I am a programmer with a desire to ease the use of privacy tools for the net. Should I begin with TOR, PGP or something else you see as useful for the non-technical?  Cheers, Amber 
Did you think the internet would expand everywhere like it did? (e.g. on peoples' phones, appliances)  If not, how far did you think it would reach?
Do you regret implementing DRM into the HTML5 spec? And what implications will this have or end users who probably don't even know what DRM is?
Hello,  How long will it be before the robots enslave or kill us off?  Thank you.
Net neutrality is really important.  Basically we do so much cool stuff on top of the network layer, it has to remain an unbiased infrastructure for all our discussion, innovation, etc.    I must have the right to be able to communicate with whatever or whoever I want, without discrimination, be it political or commercial.  See for example things I've said at http://webfoundation.org/2015/02/netneutrality-this-victory-is-for-everyone/  and http://ec.europa.eu/commission/2014-2019/ansip/blog/guest-blog-sir-tim-berners-lee-founding-director-world-wide-web-foundation_en 
Hi! There seem to be some critique against HTTP2 (e.g. [1][2]). Do you think its a step in the right direction, or is it bad?  [1] http://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=2716278 [2] http://blog.fefe.de/?ts=aa031bbb
What is your view on OneWeb and SpaceX Google Internet Constellation competition?
[deleted]
With the UK Government _again_ thinking about trying to push a Snoopers Charter through parliament (e.g. UK Prime Minister David Cameron's pledge to ban encryption on the Web), how do we balance the need for privacy and a viable e-commerce infrastructure with the government's need to see all communications so as to track down terrorists before they act (ostensibly in the name of public safety)?
[deleted]
Sir Tim,   Do you ever lie in bed and have a tiny existential crisis about the Web?
Is it true you're from Colehill or is it just an urban myth? If so Hi from Colehill and congratulations on being awesome.
Hello! Now that Net Neutrality is set (for now), what is the biggest Internet issue out there that people should be paying more attention to?
Imagine the P vs NP problem is solved tomorrow. What would happen to the Internet as we know it? 
If net neutrality passes couldn't we just begin a new web infrastructure? Also do you see any major advances in the coming years?
There is a lot of talk about consumer privacy and all the data being collected by so many internet companies. But, haven't people already voted with their clicks - it seems that people are willing to give away their privacy for something in return. Is that bad?
Hello Tim,  What do you think will be the next invention to be as revolutionary as what you've helped create?
Shame this was downvoted it is clever. 
Where did you gain your knowledge to create the WWW?
Hey Tim, If you were to reinvent the internet (URLs included) what would you change, and why?
In the previous AMA, he told that he used firefox more, but he also uses all other browsers like chrome, opera and safari time to time.
If you could throw away the current web what are the top features you would want to see in a replacement?  Are those different from what you would like to see added to or changed about the current tech stack?
Firstly, thank you. Without your work I wouldn't have the job I do today (Front-end Dev). How does it feel knowing you changed the world, created industries and set many positive things in motion? Do you have any regrets over the negative way the web has been used?
Seriously, when I heard of people being hit by  crytpowall and crptolocker attacks.
Why :// ?
How do you see the web in the next 20 years? Any milestone to consider that changes the way we use internet?
A couple questions:  * Do you believe that Deckard was a replicant? * Do you believe that AI is the greatest future threat to mankind? And if not, why not?
What do you think of the future of the internet being truely distributed? (through new protocols like [ipfs](http://ipfs.io))
I totally agree, thanks for the reply!
Sir Tim, 1) How do you feel that tools of the WWW are sometimes misused for nefarious things like ISIS recruitment or as ways to commit criminal acts across national boundaries?   2) How can authorities, or we as a community prevent this from happening?
How accidental was the web as we know it today? How accidentally was fault tolerance built into it? (in HTML, specifically, since the others came later) 
Hi Tim,  I presume you have tried imagining just how far the internet would go at different stages in its life. Is there anything you wish had happened, that hasn't?
Sir Tim,  If you could make one, immediate change to privacy or security on the Internet, what would it be?
Good evening Sir Tim, one quick question. What is one thing you would change about the current state of the Web?
Sir Berners-Lee,   In today's age of technology, how can the layperson protect their privacy?   Thank you for everything you have done, and everything you will do. 
What are your thoughts on decentralizing the web? Is it necessary? Can it be fast enough? Are you watching anything in this area?
When you invented the internet, what did you expect people to use it for? Surely it wasn't for cat videos and porn. Or was it?
Good Afternoon Sir Tim,  What scares you most about your invention?
In the first 25 years since you invented the WWW, the dynamics of "power" have changed, with it now being possible for grassroots movements, organic celebrity, and shoestring startup companies to have a worldwide reach. Over the next 25 years, how do you think the web will further change the political, economic, and social realities of the world that we live in?
Sir Berners-Lee,  Thank you for your work in creating the web, not only as a technology but as the free and open place it is today. Me and many others have grown up on the web, and feel a sort of citizenship to it.  While technically HTTP is a distributed protocol, monolithic services were created from it that control a lot of user data (Google, Facebook, etc.). How do you feel about how centralized the web has become today?  Also, what do you think about new distributed technologies working to make the web less centralized? For instance, [IPFS](http://ipfs.io) or mesh networks.
What has surprised you most about the way the Internet has evolved?
Great and very important question, with no simple answer.   We must work with government to make them accountable when they use our personal data -- however they got it.   Just a battle of crypto might is not a solution, we also need to change laws and change the structure of government agencies. We need to give the police certain power in exchange for transparency and accountability.   And we need to encrypt email and web traffic everywhere, for general security.
Whats your best non-internet thing that you love?
In the Book "The Tangled Web", Michael Zalewski wrote that the WWW was just a "simple" implementation of an "information system". How true is that?  To quote:  &gt; "To many people, the design of HTTP and HTML must have seemed a significant regression from the loftier goals of competing projects. After all, many of the earlier efforts boasted database integration, security and digital rights management, or cooperative editing and publishing; in fact, even Berners-Lees own project, ENQUIRE, appeared more ambitious than his current work. Yet, because of its low entry requirements, immediate usability, and unconstrained scalability (which happened to coincide with the arrival of powerful and affordable computers and the expansion of the Internet), the unassuming WWW project turned out to be a sudden hit."
What advice do you have to those working in the technology fields?  Are we to become redundant?  
1) What do you think now about the commitment you made when you invented World Wide Web? And additionally, do you have any expectations from younger generations on similar scope?  2) What do you expect about recent AI developments and what ideas are fundamental in order to achieve breakthrough in this technology?
What do you think will come after the Internet?
What do you think about memes? 
For me, the internet stands for the freedom of the exchange of information. What did the internet mean to you when you created it and what does it mean to you now?
Sir Tim,     How do you feel about internet piracy? Do you think it is a misuse of the web? Or do you think it is one of the ways the web makes information of all kinds more accessible to more people?
Hi, thanks for your AMA.  If I understand correctly, HTTP grew out of a protocol for text exchange and the first web browser was also an authoring tool.  1. Did you imagine the web would be rich in multimedia (if the author chooses) as it is today? 2. I imagine most web users are content browsers, rather than content creators (except for the odd image macro/meme or YouTube video). Do you think there's more potential for users to become active creators? Thank you.
One of the perhaps more concerning things about the Web's growth is how the browser vendors are all now prepared to work with the community, except for Apple, and they define a fairly large chunk of mobile web usage (which is where a lot of computing is going). Do you think their reputation for not engaging is justified? And what can the W3C do to improve this situation?
Hi Tim, What are your thoughts on government spying and how would you create an organized resistance over the web against certain government policies? 
Sir Tim, do you think that a life lived through a screen, as it increasingly is, is a better or a worse life?
Hey Sir Tim,   Did you ever imagine the internet would be used for  looking at cute pictures of cats?
When you first invented the worldwide web, did you think it would be as important as it is?
[deleted]
What do you think about trashing plain-text HTML for an optimized binary format, considering that most transmission is compressed by GZIP or SHDIC anyway?    Why not ease the load (especially on mobile devices) by making HTML a language that can be converted to a tokenized binary representation before transmission, but be plaintext while developing? Human readable protocols were necessary in the days of terminals when client software was optional, so that an SMTP/HTTP/GOPHER/WIAS session was readable by an operator without special software.  Those days are essentially gone for HTML.  Code is compressed, huge, normally requires scripting languages to be active in the browser, averages ~80 TCP connections and hundreds of assets, and is transmitted in binary anyway due to compression needs.  Not to mention, new protocols like SPDY are making HTTP binary with great success.  Isn't it about time HTML evolves just the same?
Sir Berners-Lee,  Net neutrality is a great policy to ensure the Internet continues to be an open forum. But policies are volatile and unstable. Do you see a need for a technological answer to the problems of surveillance and censorship? Are there any specific technologies you see as important in this fight?
Hi Professor, Two questions :  * What do you thing about IoT ?  * Can IoT exists without sematic web ?  Thanks you !
High five to you good sir. Telesurgery is pretty amazing, what are applications that still amaze you?
[deleted]
Well, the outcome is not a foregone conclusion, that tech will in fact end up working in humanity's best interests.  But we have a choice!    These things are laws and tech standards and so on which actually we control.    So it is up to us, where 'us' is humanity, and in general, about us, I am optimistic -- so long as we keep our eyes on the prize. 
Tim! Thanks much for doing this. I have three questions.  First, I remember watching a talk you have about creating an internet "bill of rights". That's something I've thought a lot about, and I'm increasingly concerned that without any concept of a digital state (in the political sense) such a thing would be unenforceable. Do you have any thoughts on how it might be given teeth? And, for that matter, what are your thoughts on what it should contain?  Second, a bit open-ended: what's your perspective on the EU's "right to be forgotten"? Do you think that's feasible in the digital age? Do you have concerns with it?  Finally, given how much we've learned about security and social system exchange online, if you could go back 26 years, is there anything you'd change about internet architecture?
Should I be bullish on Bitcoin?
Do you ever fantasize about finding your eight-inch floppy disk with the original Enquire (in Pascal) on it? BECAUSE I DO.
That is a very good question that I had not thought of, the internet can give all the power to the little guy because his voice is hard to silence on the WWW
Thanks Tim! 
Hi sir ,   A couple of questions  1. Safari , Chrome , IE or Firefox ? Which do you prefer ?   2. Many countries in the world , including mine (India) , are clamping down on freedom of the web. Recently a documentary was taken down (BBC). Do you / Can you / Will you persuade US , UK , any other countries in the world believing in freedom of speech and internet to use diplomatic channels to ensure the freedom of your baby - the Internet ?   3. Your thoughts on internet based currencies , specifically Bitcoin.  And your thoughts on TOR.   4. Your thoughts on copyright laws. And is the penalty for downloading illegal stuff excessively hard ?   5. Have you ever been interrogated by customs regarding your activities while flying across the world ? Most Internet activists are. 
Hello Sir Tim Berners-Lee,  What do you do on your spare time, besides being totally awesome individual? What phone are you using? What TV series are you currently watching?  Thank you for your time reading this irrelevant post.
The first photo to be shared through the web is known to be of the LHC: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Les_Horribles_Cernettes_in_1992.jpg  Could you tell us what your thoughts were as you were uploading those images to the web, please? I ask for curiosity's sake in what I think is a historical moment. Thank you.
Hello Dr. Berners-Lee.  How do you think your invention will evolve in the next 26 years?
Sir, I was wondering what do you think will be the main role played by technology and the WWW in journalism in the future? Do you think it will positively advance it or give way to an implementation on a larger scale of AP-style 'writing robots', diminishing human capital? 
Nope.  I was head down getting stuff working.... the server and client were both on my machine at that stage... I wasn't using source code control, so I could nto go back and find the critical commit with the "hmm GET seems to work" comment :-)
Tim,  Do you think the internet was inevitable, just that you got there first? How much longer do you think it would have been before someone else would have done something similar if you hadn't been there?
[deleted]
Right? I wish it was at the top I am still giggling at it :'D
Hi Sir Tim How do you see the www continuing to impact on education in the UK over the next few years? The FELTAG report states progressions of up to 50% online learning but students constantly comment that they would like more f2f time with teachers.
How would you suggest your idea of a Magna Carta bill of rights for web users be enforced or monitored?
Which recent technological advancement are you most excited about? Where are you most involved these days?
Thankyou for the AMA!  What excites you most about the future or technology, and the future in general?
What do you think, will the Internet be like in 20 years?  Thank you for the www Mr. Berners-Lee! 
Where is that machine now?
Some people complain on the web about the cost of CERN. What would you like to tell them?
[deleted]
I certainly lived in Colehill Dorset for a bit.  High 5.  Have a pint of Tanglefoot for me at the Barley Mow if it is still there.  
How do you feel about the accusations that Al Gore invented the internet?
People
Don't you have a TED talks on this?
Hi Tim, thanks for your time here!  As users we end up depending on our ISPs and the will of the local government. It would be great to see a borderless/truly open internet.  **Do you see a future where the internet depends more on people and less on governments/big companies?** How can we work on that *now* as users?
But, what if the importance of the traffic is different - what if I need a different level of connection quality for my heart monitoring device that is linked to my doctor than I do for uploading steps from my FitBit? Aren't there very good reasons to differentiate types of traffic?
The internet has revolutionized the world economy and the way we do work. While new industries have been created, jobs are being automated away at a rapid pace - the internet has played a huge role in this. What can we do to ensure that everyone has the right to full participation in the world economy, at a time when jobs are not available for everyone, and yet jobs are still required to generate an income for survival? I've heard that [r/BasicIncome](https://np.reddit.com/r/BasicIncome/) might be a way of achieving this. Do you see a basic income as part of the solution?
[deleted]
[deleted]
In terms of making tech human and yesterday's release of the Apple Watch: as the "internet" become increasingly tangible: what role do you see embedded devices, wearables, IoT, etc. in the life of the everyday American / global citizen? What efficiencies will it unlock for the everyperson? What new challenges might we find (e.g., crossing the street swiping my phone! Yikes!)?
[deleted]
Hello Sir Berners-Lee,  I am an informational technolgy enthusiast since I was a kid and I am here with my girlfriend who would rather like to see me a bit more separated from the screen :)  So we have two equally opposing questions for you:  Me: Being that I am from the Balkans and see how people from countries who passed the transition period adapt to the web in a more "entertainment/gossip/shoping" way, rather than learning or emancipating themselves - what do you think is the future of educating people about personal growth and proper education via internet? I suppose this is something that may be applicable to a wider range of people, but I don't want to insult anyone...  Her: What do you like to read for laisure? And do you have a book that you could recomennd to a perfect stranger?  I hope that this doesn't look to messy and that the grammar is right. I am writting from my phone and obviously english is not my native language.  Thank you for all the joy that you brought to this world and have a nice evening!
[deleted]
Do you feel that all people should be allowed equal access to the world wide web? How do you feel about censorship, good or bad? Do you think that government intervention is neccessary? 
Hi Sir Tim,  My developer friend had a concern about his job security and would love to hear your thoughts: "as a developer, are the advancements in technology taking over the need for my skillset?"
Hi Tim,   Firstly, thank you for your contributions in creating the World Wide Web and ensuring that it remains accessible to everyone. I would like to ask the following:  1) Is the current WWW the way you envisioned it being back when it first began, or has it not met/exceeded your expectations? 2) In your own personal life, what aspect of having a readily-accessible web has been the most beneficial to you?  Thank you!
[deleted]
Hi Sir,  On the smart versus open cities debate, do you think there should be an effort on the part of local governments to keep urban data open (urban mobility information gathered from mobile devices, for instance), or is the right to keep private, sell and profit from that kind of information essential to innovation in the field?
One does not simply ask the inventor of the WWW what he thinks about memes.  
What is your favorite meme?
Like money, technology has no conscience.   And like all fields, technology is influenced by power at all levels. Nowadays, a highschool dropout can get a job at over $100,000 per year, coding HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The problem is that the fruits of this labor are at best useless.   We effectively serve a system that is tied into data aggregation for the big companies who share customer data with business partners, including big brother. Those companies do so, though coercion (USAPatriot), trickery (PRISM), cooperation, or financial or marketshare incentive.  This has come about by market manipulation brought about by large financial institutions. Knowing this, we cannot seriously believe that we live in a free society.   The government has become so brazen as to decide what people will be doing for work. Unelected regional governments (ABAG is San Francisco Bay Area's regional government) implement plans of the United Nations for population densification. This is seen in Plan Bay Area.  The USTR is working to implement trade deals that benefit the same multinational corporations as USAID and the USUBC (US-Ukraine Business Council) (Monsanto, et al).  The US is pushing sector-specific spending for tech. It has become a large centrally-planned project implemented by bumbling humans. http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2015/03/09/fact-sheet-president-obama-launches-new-techhire-initiative  We are losing are freedom. Our food and land is being controlled, and by that, our health is, too (that is, if you accept the idea that human health depends on the health of our environment, not the pharmaceutical industry and that food is medicine that comes from the environment and not scientists who seek to patent seeds).  How can we stop it?   When the elite want action, they use everything from propaganda, to public private partnerships, to state-sponsored terrorism (they call it counterterrorism).   Short of a catastrophic and catalyzing event, what can we do to stop technocratic advancement and the harm that it is causing?
Thank you for answering my question, Tim. ()	 
With the demise of the One Laptop Per Child project, how can we ensure that Internet access is available to the people who need it most? Will smartphones be the answer even as unreliable &amp; scant satellite coverage over rural areas seems to be the norm due to lack of ISP investment?
What do you think about the UK government's attempts to block so called "adult" content online, and the inevitable censorship problems that such filters attract?  Did the UK Coalition government ever seek your views on them?
[:)](https://i.imgflip.com/io4y2.jpg)
What thing on the internet today would surprise Tim Berners-Lee of 26 years ago?
What new technology has truly amazed you in recent times? 
The problem I guess is that technology is an enabler, so it can drive freedom or oppression: do you think that ultimately we are talking about the vagaries of human nature rather than technology per se?
[deleted]
Do you regret inadvertently giving birth to the concept of shock sites?
Opinions on JavaScript and the way it shapes the web?  and   thoughts on the font used on this webpage http://www.w3.org/Mobile/ :D  ?!?!?!?!
Hey Al, are you planning on running for any new office anytime soon?  Oops sorry, wrong inventor of the Internet!
Hello sir! What is your most used website these days? 
What Internet browser do you use Tim? 
[deleted]
Hello! What are your perspectives on Artificial Intelligence? Do you think it could be dangerous or beneficial?
Are you disappointed in the way that people use the interest today such as cat videos, porn, etc?
What Internet browser do you most use? 
It has to be said... what is your favourite website? 
[deleted]
Favourite milkshake flavour?
Do you think your fame has changed you?
If you could have done anything differently in regards to inventing the web, what would it be?
Thank you for taking the time to do this. I have two questions: - What do you see for the future of Web Science as a research field?  - How do you feel about having so many people studying something you have played such a large part in?
What are the potential upsides and downsides of Elon Musk's world wide satellites to bring the Internet to everyone?
Haha that's awesome! It is indeed, thanks for the reply! 
Tim,  I went to your school (Emanuel) and you don't have much of a presence there, in terms of photos on the walls, presentations to students and whatnot. I recall asking a teacher why that was, and he mentioned that apparently you weren't that keen on going back for some reason. Is this true, and if it is, why?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Hello Tim, What is your opinion about the deep, dark (or shadow) web? Does the bill about Net Neutrality needs to make an exception to roll these sites, to prevent child porn or worse?  Thanks for this AMA and your awesome invention!  
Hello, Sir! What's your stance on the darknets, such as Tor? 
[deleted]
So many parts of internet culture are really, really weird. Know any particularly weird places? Any that you happen to like?
Hi there Tim!  What are your go-to tech news sources?  Thanks!
Did you ever thinks while inventing it, that will be an issential thing in our lives?
Did you imagine that your invention will become the behemoth it is today? 
Don't developments within IPV6, specifically the traffic class, seems to suggest otherwise?
1. What browser do you use day to day.   2. What are your add-ons.  After the enforcement of net neutrality, what do you think is the next fight in the quest for Internet freedom?
Sir Berners-Lee,   Are you still learning new things about your invention and new methods of its utilization, or is it a straightforward design that doesn't require new ways to use it because the default ones work well enough? 
Are you jealous of Al Gore? I thought he invented the internet?
Hello sir!  Do you think they read your e-mails too? Are you angry about it? What do you do for it?  Thank you for being here! It's an honour!
[deleted]
If you could change any one thing about the Internet today what would it be and why?
[deleted]
Well... We have had a whole campaign webwewant.org to ask people what sort for a web they want for the next 25 years. It is up to us, but hopefully we will lock down (in culture and where necessary law) the fact that it is open.  The number of people using the web will soon cross the 50% and soon 75% of the world population, and then instead of worrying about getting the majority online the spotlight will b to those who remain disenfranchised in the remaining 25%, 10% .   Milestone? When I have enough bandwidth to bring me a scene in wrap-around HD so my eyes and ears can't tell I'm not in the other place.
What's the most surprising use of Web technology you've seen? What's the most inspiring one, as well? 
What is your main, and favourite use for the Web today?
What do you think of the fact that two companies (apple,Samsung) are in control of basically all of the mobile market share?
Hello Tim!   I'm all the way from Southern Africa, I really appreciate what you've done and what you continue to do.   My question is, did you think about remote places connecting to the web at any point when you were working on the world wide web?
[deleted]
What are some uses for the internet that you've found to be truly fascinating and never would have imagined when WWW was created?
That was glorious!  {day: 'made'}
[deleted]
On you statement about making tech more human. We've all seen the Hollywood adaptions of technology becoming hazardous to humanity as well as recent scientists making statements about their fears on A.I. Technology. My question is are these fears justifiable? What are your thoughts? I'd love to know.
What do you sir think about Ed Snowden revelations and the surveillance state that we're living in ? 
For the majority, much of Internet life has become built on 'free' and on products that need no user knowledge - gmail, Facebook, online shopping interfaces - the few are concerned with privacy, and even fewer know crypto. How can we protect web core values for the many when they don't know it is under threat - think access, surveillance, censorship filtering - when it is so dominated by big consumer interests who have big government influence? And users are unwilling to trade convenience to solve an invisible problem? 
The outernet.
[deleted]
What are your views on the treatment of women on the internet with regards to harassment and threat, often geared towards activists?
I know it's a pretty new startup, Voat.co, but it's exploding.  I use it; many people do, it's more reliable already, and maybe it's time that you got over there and checked it out...  Do you ever consider doing it on voat.co instead?  
Hi Tim. What website do you use the most?
The web has made the flow of information much easier and many things much more efficient. What are some of the benefits we'll see in the coming years?
Hi Sir Berners-Lee. I would really like to know what your thoughts about the future of the WWW are?
Thanks!! we owe you so much!  Obligatory question, how do you like your pizza?
Hello Tim  May I ask you how you ended at CERN?
If you could change one thing about the Internet, what would it be and why? 
[deleted]
I've always wondered. What do *you* use the Internet for? On a regular day? 
[deleted]
The Internet is effectively under control by few of the industry giants. Do you see this having a fundamental impact on nations, governments, geopolitical equations? 
Sir,  Thanks for inventing this thing. ;)   I'm interested, in Net Neutrality and the current landscape, how would a company be allowed to differentiate traffic for traffic shaping,  for QoS purposes. Does net neutrality allow for this now on the open internet? Of course it will on point to point circuits of a private nature, but what of other networks? What of public university networks that already ARE running QoS in support of things like IP Telephony, audio, scientific research reasons? Could a university find itself in trouble for traffic shaping?  
[deleted]
Good evening sir.   What's your view for the Internet in the next 20 years?   It started from the biggest universities, then in the housolds, now it everywhere on mobile.   What's the next frontier in your opinion. 
What's your opinion on the many me too photo sharing apps and mindless and repetitive mobile games? I feel that developers are not trying to solve real problems but instead jumping on the bandwagon and trying to get rich quick. 
Sir, do you think there will be a substitute for HTML in near future?
[deleted]
What, in your opinion, is the next evolutionary step for the internet?  Do you see meshnets playing a larger role in securing communications content delivery and privacy?
Sir Tim, what do you think about the digital divide between different generations in developed countries? I live in Italy and a former employer of mine was adamant about not being able to read his work e-mails at home, as if they were physical envelopes.
[deleted]
Sir TBL!  In your opinion, how can modern and future technology increase the quality of life for particularly poor countries and victims of human rights violations?
Hi Tim! Thank you for an Inventionen that changed literally billions of lifes and will continue to do so. My questions:  1) Do you think the www would be that big without the porn industry? How would it be today without it?  2) What are the monetary benefits from being the creator of the www?  3) What do you think about the Apple iwatch?   Trank you sir!
Bravo! 
Tim,  Did you ever envision people would use the internet for cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin? Do you believe people will adopt the use of cryptos in the future?  Also, what's your favorite flavor of Linux?
[deleted]
What is your vision for the future of the web?
What do you think the best ways would be of doing those things?  I don't think I'm alone in thinking that at this point the task of getting the Governments &amp; Agencies of the world to be held accountable again seems like just *too* daunting of a task. Especially with the number of people day to day who just don't seem to care enough to want it to stop.   By the time the younger generations who grew up on the web become older and want to stop this kind of stuff, who knows what various surveillance agencies could have infiltrated and stored about us.   To me anyway it seems like we joined the battle way too late. Government Agencies don't want to give up on their multi-million dollar operations, and also have the people that made those decisions *actually* be held accountable for their prior and intended actions. It seems they will fight to the bone to protect themselves and it will be a while before we have a way of fighting that.  That's just my two cents, it's pessimistic as hell but for me it just seems like a hard fact of life by now.   Thanks for everything you're doing though, I seriously hope everything I said turns out to be false!
Hello sir, this might be the most basic question but how much of your time do you spend online? Are you very active or just use it once in a while?
Great question.   Keep asking that question.  Don't take it for granted.   Keep an eye on the situation in your town, your country, your company.  In each year of using it, spend some time with others working or writing or lobbying or protesting as needed to keep it open.  
What do you think about the right to being connected to the internet? I'm not asking just for now. How important do you think it would be in, say, 50 years from now?
Do you agree that NSA and GCHQ etc are / will be one of the biggest threat to humanity? (This was the result of a survey among MIT/Harvard/Stanford professors and students.)
Hi profesor,  First of all, thanks a lot for doing this AMA. It really shows how far the WWW has come.  My question: what were some of the toughest challenges you had to overcome in the development of the WWW, and do you have any anecdotes on said development that you're willing to share with us?
Hi, Sir Tim.  During those times when you're not doing anything, does the significance of what you're responsible for creating hit you? Like "Holy shit, I've created this big, massive, giant throbbing web that carries the sum total of all human knowledge." ? Does it, even after all these years?
Gamer focused NICs actually claim to prioritize gaming and streaming traffic over other traffic. Is that a violation of Adobe updater's rights?
Hello! How come we have so much information at our fingertips and yet most people are so uninformed about what's going on in the world? And how can we use the WWW to fix this?
Sir Tim,   What are your thoughts on sub- and top-level domain usage? Accepted standard of practice ("www" subdomain / DNS record) seem to have gone out of the window, compliance with categories (.com for commercial) never seemed to exist, and top-level domain types have exploded.  Also, I recently read about [your regrets regarding your URL design](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1220286/Sir-Tim-Berners-Lee-admits-forward-slashes-web-address-mistake.html). I really wish you had reversed the order of domain names in order of size so http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2ykyht/i_am_sir_tim_bernerslee_inventor_of_the_web_join/ would become http:com/reddit/www/r/IAmA/comments/2ykyht/i_am_sir_tim_bernerslee_inventor_of_the_web_join/. It makes SO much more sense!
Your initial intention when inventing the Web, was it to make a profit or help make the world a better place? 
[deleted]
Well meme'd my friend!
Do you think 'inadvertent algorithmic cruelty' is actually inadvertent or just lazy and unfeeling on the part of the brands responsible?
[deleted]
On a lighter note, what was the best thing you've said "Now that's what I invented the web for!"?  ^(*other than your actual reasons for inventing the web I guess)
Hi Tim. In your opinion, why are the popular 'younger' communication techniques mostly circumscribed by commercial borders, e.g. social networks, instant messaging (although often based on xmpp) and so on. What if necessary can be done against this discrepancy to the original web idea?
First, thanks for the technology that makes the Web possible. Then, what's next? 
When you were working on building the Internet, did you have any idea what this would eventually mean for the people of the world?   Thank you for the greatest invention in the last 100 years.
[deleted]
But we're paying so much money for internet, why can't the ISPs just make sure all devices have good enough access?  
What issues do you see with the rise of AI?
VERY good question! I had forgot about the whole #gamergate thing. 
Do you think that the effectiveness of "big science" like the American National Laboratory system or CERN has grown or diminished since your time at CERN? What role should scientific megaprojects (particularly those primarily focused on basic research) play in the development of applied science that helps achieve their main focus and can also be spun off?  Thanks!
If the Internet was at a stage in life, what stage do you feel it is currently at? What stage do you feel it will grow to within the next 10 years? How do you feel it can more integrated within society? Thanks for time and vision!
Did you consider that the Web and the Internet would be so pervasive?
Hi Sir Tim!  Firstly, thanks for the world wide web...it's pretty darn awesome.  I was wondering if you think that current use of older web technology (e.g. http, email) has far exceeded its limitations? And how we can overcome those limitations now that they are so embedded in everything we take for granted.  To explain a bit better (in my not so tech savvy way); email was not originally created with the foresight of SPAM and malicious intent. We have tried many ways to improve and add (Spam filtering, SPF...etc) but still, at the core, is an unsecure technology.  Is there a case for "building from scratch" in this day an age or do you see a more "patch and repair" methodology.  Hopefully that makes sense?
So what do you do these days? Do you still develop software? What for, and are you still mostly involved with networking?
My dad (a computer programmer for 15+ years) believes that net neutrality is wrong because Title II is an outdated legislation and net neutrality would diminish competition in the internet market. Could you respond to him?
I have always loved the Einstein quote that "It has become appallingly obvious that our technology has exceeded our humanity." Of course, he said that in a very different time in a very different context -- and it does not have to be true.  
[deleted]
Do you think ad hoc standard-unawer mesh-networks will overtake centralized net infrastructure as core backbone of future communications?
Why are you monitoring your doctor's heart?
Hopefully, we will be able to roll out a world in which people can together and merge all the data which is about themselves and use it with all sort of cool apps to really better their lives.  We are working on this sort of thing in dig.csail.mit.edu
[deleted]
Now you are Sir Tim Berners-Lee, dankest of danks. Very nice meme, one of the best things after the invention of the Internet. 
If anything, what would you change about the current state of the Internet?
[deleted]
Hello! If there was one website you could tell everyone online to visit, which one would it be?
Mr Sir Tim!  I've been on the interwebs for a really, really long time (want my bitnet address?)   and  I have to find out something...  Is there anything that you really miss about archie and veronica? 
[deleted]
[deleted]
Are we all just numbers?  How do we keep individuality in a world where technology is seemingly making people more alike?
Are Le Reddit armie the saviours or downfall of the internet? *tips fedora*
 ()	 
Hi, what are your thoughts about the semantic web development? We can see some people using it really well (BBC, UniProt), but do you think we will manage to pass to a real web of data? 
[deleted]
[deleted]
Hi Tim! What do you think of the book "Superintelligence" by Nick Bostrom of Oxford? Do you agree with it?
Hi Tim, thanks for doing this AMA. I'm a huge fan of your work!  My question stems from recent comments from both Bill Gates and Elon Musk, where they made their fear of artificial intelligence clear. That being said, what is your stance on technology becoming too smart for our own good?  Thanks so much for taking the time to do this!
Sir Tim, Why do you write in a tech magazine? Is it just because you like writing and share you ideas with the world, Or that you have got to earn money as your inventions did not make you ends meet.  I though enjoy reading your articles.
The recent security loophole exploits on popular websites have not been too kind on the owners and users, to say the least - in your opinion, what is the next level that software encryption needs to be taken to, to mitigate such frequent attacks?
[deleted]
not the most relevant question, but I'm curious, what did the world wide web look like 26 years ago?
Hello Sir Tim! Thanks for the AMA.   The Internet has grown a lot in 26 years. During this period a lot of people in growing economies have been left behind. What according to you can be done to help these people get Internet access?   As a developer, how can I help these people learn to use the technology effectively? 
Hello Tim!  The World Wide Web has brought so many great things to us, but a large Internet subculture is focused on memes, trolling, and just general funmaking.   1. Is this how you pictured your ideas being used?  2. Do you ever participate in these subcultures?  Thanks for the opportunity to ask questions!  Cheers, Quixel
What is the state of linked data since your TED Talk? Have publishers of data been stepping up their game or are they lagging in your eyes? Which projects or organizations are furthering this mission the most?
What do you think is the next part of the internet's evolution?
What websites do you visit the most? What browser do you use? 
 Last night I listened to a BBC podcast called The New Elizabethans about you.  I was surprised to hear that you prefer it when people don't recognise you in the street (or it said something like that - I can't remember exactly).  If you could choose one - would you prefer it if everyone recognised you or if no one did?  
[deleted]
To realise a 'Web We Want' do we need to be teaching younger people more about it, earlier on and with greater emphasis? 
[deleted]
Hi. First i want to thank you for creating our home.   I would like to know what you think of i2p? 
"Any powerful tool can be used for good or ill" &lt;-- true but we have to make sure on balance good things win.    We need to protect against not only governments but criminals too, and viral conspiracy theories which seem to sprout from nowhere.    I think that if we the people stand firm in democratic countries and demand that all power over the net taken by government comes with direct accountability to the people in how it is used, then we can indeed have a wonderful civilization.   We need to keep it decentralized both technically and socially.  We need to protect our rights using both code and law.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Do you still have that computer on which you developed www?
What is your favorite book?
Where do you think the Web Standards will go over the next decade with the increasing number of diverse devices that are able to connect to the Internet?
What kind of toilet paper do you use?
What was the initial vision you had for the web? Does the  evolution surprise or shock you? If so, why?
Hi Sir Tim!  Where do you see the internet in the next 50 years?   And do you think that reddit deserves the status as "front page of the internet"?
[deleted]
Also curious about this. Do corporate-funded institutes like Bell Labs count as Big Science?
Its in the science museum in London
If you had a chance to go back in time to implement one feature in the very first version of HTTP, what would you choose?
Sir,  What are your thoughts on "the internet of things" (especially in light of your interest in making tech more human)?  And what are your thoughts about "the last mile" issue that seems more to restrict access than grant it...are you seeking a solution to that as free as the original internet?
There is a thin line between cyber law and clampdown.   In this light, what are (or should be) the cyber rights of netizens?
How should we deal with link rot?  I remember you saying "eventually every URL ends up as a porn site" - it seems that Google has made it more robust to search for something than to link to it.  [more here](http://www.kevinmarks.com/fragmentions.html)
Good evening, what I would be most interested to know would be how you feel with what you have made? I'd love to know more about how you feel with what was a great innovation? And, of course, how you feel with its progress. I'm sorry if I'm being too pushy, but It'd be awesome to know if you ever had any regrets regarding this invention and what you think is the future of it? And finally, have you ever thought that some people are abusing of it in some way?. Don't feel obliged to answer all my doubts, I'll be grateful with just one of them answered. Thanks in advance.   (Don't mind the unnecessary random question marks, my question would be deleted without them)
Sir Tim, what global internet solution are you most excited about, why and who will be the first?
What is your favorite thing on the Web? 
How can NSA do what they're doing despite the immense amount of security measures implemented on web servers?
[deleted]
Which TV show are you watching currently and which one is your favourite of all time?
Hello Sir Tim!  What do you think of people using your invention to get to know others/social networking? I and my husband would have likely never had the chance to be anything more than acquaintances if it were not for your inventing the Web. We are deeply grateful for your inventing it and working to make sure as many people as possible get to be a part of it. Cheers to you and those that helped you.
Sir Tim Berners-Lee,  If you had the ability to magically change one thing about the WWW as it is today, not necessarily as you developed it in the early 1990s, what would it be and why?  Thanks!
(One question at a time please, reddit works best like that.)   I wish we had a much more powerful general private key management ecosystem which allowed my computer to trust the same people/systems which I do, for the same reasons.  See discussions on publc-www-tag@w3.org etc (I have got to meet amazing people)
We're clearly through a mobile revolution nowadays. A big part of the internet access is done by smartphones/tablets, and everyday we see better applications for these devices, in a way that a lot of respected websites now have apps where the content can be consumed without actually accessing an URL and visiting a webpage. Do you believe that in the next years (decades?) the web will become more "service-oriented", having mobile apps and wearable technology as the "views" for all the content we have right now?
Hello, this is a legitimate question. How does it feel knowing that your invention increased the access to child pornography, allowed a conduit for people to expand their ego, allowed for an international forum for extremist groups, and allowed the black market to expand to unprecedented levels? Or how about creating a new brand of bullying called "cyber-bullying"? 
Did you ever participated in any online discussion using a fake profile?
[deleted]
A lot of the work Bell Labs did was government funded, so I'd put them broadly in that category.
[deleted]
Thank you for the WWW. What's the future of the internet?
Hello Sir Tim!  I studied a lot about the internet during my media course and we learnt about you and watched a couple of documentaries which had you in them. I would like to know your opinions on the internet as it stands right now? 
What is the silliest thing you've seen on the interwebz and what was the weirdest one?
[deleted]
Sit Tim,  In 2010 I attended a conference in which you said that, if we want to understand how the Internet will evolve, we should look at how the younger generations are using it.  So, where do you think the Internet is heading now?
Would love to hear his answer on this one
It's in the Science Museum in London AFAIK - http://blog.sciencemuseum.org.uk/insight/tag/next-computer/
Hi Tim, huge fan of your eponymous 1989 work, "the internet" - any plans for a follow up?   Also who will you be voting for in the upcoming UK general election and why? 
How do you feel about how Internet culture has developed? 
Hello Professor Tim What to know what is your opinion on Internet rules for Mobilie applications, would they change to adopt better user experience?
Hey Tim. When you invented the World Wide Web, did you wife went like a-www? 
Did you ever meet Al Gore?
I think it will become more and more crucial.  (See e.g. http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/2014/12/12/web-human-right_n_6313688.html )    In many ways the web is not just a luxury for cool early adopters it is critical for people to really take part in society, education.   The #MakeTechHuman http://www.wired.com/maketechhuman idea is about technology serving humanity ... much of that is going to use the net. So no use if the net is controlled spied on or only available to the few.
Thanks!  Hope he deleted his browser history before putting it in a museum for all time.  
Hi Tim! We see more and more courses/training online and sometimes I feel that I learn much more online than at my university. And I believe that online training/education is going to be very important in developing countries in the future. What's your view on that? Thanks!
Hello! As a student in Computer Science, I've read from the early days of computing that "the internet was designed by geniuses but the web was designed by amateurs." (Not sure who to attribute that too.) What are your thoughts, and how is the web different now from then? 
What's your thoughts on the deep web and the government's recent attempts to shut it down?
Were you bored in school?  If yes, what would have made school great?  (For me, the internet provides a great education.  Thanks)
What do you think of the new web tecnologies (web components, etc.), and the state of the web today (for example the state at which HTML and CSS today compared to what they were when they were first created)? Do you feel that the philosophy has been kept through all this development or that you don't recognize your children anymore?
Tim, is there any safety or legal certainty in any kind of computer or network security endeavor anymore? I'm terrified to learn more about programming when activities as benign as using curl to iteratively download webpages has been argued to be felony hacking by the Department of Justice.
How am I supposed to AYA if I'm not connected to the internet in the first place?
You are an amazing genius and a generous and decent human being!! Thank you so very much for the internet!!! And thank you for doing this AMA.  My question is: Is there anyplace where you do not use the internet? Any calm place to just watch the sky without any modern device? :)
[deleted]
When humans have established an permanent colony on Mars, what do you think would be the best way to set-up an internet on Mars and more importantly for the colony to stay connected to Earth?   My current thinking is that you start with sending some content with the expedition, perhaps a few terabytes. You would also require a satellite/station to be "placed" in a location that is always between Mars and Earth that can act like a buffer between the two.Many thanks for doing things!
That is a bit simplistic by itself.  Did the survey ask about agencies you don't know about in other countries, who are perhaps even less constrained than those two?  Did it ask about criminal agencies world over?
I'm quite sure it's this one, and that it's at CERN: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CERN_httpd 
Sir What's one thing that if you could you would like to change about the Web? 
The Web succeeded where Ted Nelson's Xanadu didn't, to a large extent because you were prepared to accept that a messy broken web of links could still deliver value.  Why do you believe the Semantic Web, with it's dependence on a unified global vocabulary will not suffer the same fate as Xanadu?
&gt; How can we work on that now as users?  I think in an ideal situation we can start to mesh[1] our pocket-sized devices and laptop computers (and not depend on ISPs). Truly, decentralized, autonomous network of computers. But this will be very hard to have in place keeping in mind the current system of providing internet. But if we can all dream the ideal and work towards it, maybe we can.  [1] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesh_networking
What are some of the most unexpected things that you have seen the Internet being used for, and what were your intentions in the beginning of developing it?
What do you part of life, that hasn't been impacted by the internet as a technology, will be influenced the greatest in the coming years?
Just for future reference, it's Sir Tim. It would be Lord Berners-Lee but sadly he's not a lord... yet. 
Did you foresee such a large percentage of the Web being dedicated to pornography?
Greetings Professor Tim,  Favourite programming language??
&gt; dig.csail.mit.edu thank you for this link and the important work done here. I will immerse myself ;-) 
Cat videos, obviously.  Or porn. Probably porn.
Hi! What's the best thing to come from the Internet?
It gets to go first but doesn't get more bandwidth. Ping optimisation doesn't negatively impact a non latency sensitive application.
Agreed!
Trust me when I say the end of #GamerGate will have a VERY different lesson than one of online harassment. And no, I don't mean anything about "ethics in video game journalism" either.
How much longer would the internet have taken to be created had DARPA not taken an interest paving the way with DARPAnet? Would there even be an internet without the US Department of Defense?
[deleted]
Hello! What is your opinion about decentralized cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin? 
Great question! Would love to see a reply!
Hi Sir,   Are you really convinced that Julian Assanage did the right thing by handing over all the cables and other data to big establishments like the Gaurdian when in the first place he declared himself to be up and against "establishments."   Many are of the opinion that the actual top secret information about internet privacy breach has not been leaked by these news agencies. What do you think?
[deleted]
For dystopia to flourish it only requires that good people fail to ask the right questions.
Did you have any idea that the web would become so  commercialized? How does today's WWW differ from your original vision of it?
Thanks for your reply! How long do you estimate it would take for a sizeable portion of the world to bring that into effect?
Thank you for your invaluable gift for humanity!  What is your opinion on the internet and social media helping people overcome their rulers in the Arab spring?
According to you What will be the next big thing that can equal the internet in popularity and usefulness? 
Quite a bit has been done to create platforms/services to replace the username/password method of authentication to websites with one solution fits all approaches but mostly all have received lukewarm responses.  What, according to you sir, can be the successor of the username/password method of authentication (as maybe how you would implement it) ?
Tm.What do you think about present and future of bitcoin?
someone has to
Hi - I work at the Web Foundation (founded by Sir Tim) and our view is yes, absolutely! We've just worked with the British Library, British Council and others to produce a set of Creative Commons licenced teaching materials on just this topic. See: https://schoolsonline.britishcouncil.org/classroom-resources/list/magna-carta-my-digital-rights
What do you make of the Ethereum project and blockchain technologies, which aim is to re-decentralize the web? 
I think that the mistreatment/abuse/harassment of women is a very serious issue.   I think in general boys need to learn early on to have and to show total respect for all women. If you look back at your online behavior  and realize you have made even one off-color remark, then cringe and never do it again. It has a massive negative affect. It is not funny. It is not cute.
What is your opinion regarding the Pirate Bay and others torrent indexes?
LOL... medicaid fraud detection maybe?
[deleted]
What is your all time favorite website?
What was it like working side by side with, and under the tutelage and guidance of, the illustrious Al Gore?
[deleted]
How does it feel to confuse millions of elderly people every day?
What is your current favorite thing to do on the Internet?
**Required**: *Code and Law, 5th ed., Berners-Lee* with access code
Did you ever work with Jon Postel? What was he like?  I wrote a paper on him and his work during college but he passed away before I could get in touch with him.
Hello Tim,  You are quoted in the book "The Innovators"  Saying that you "only wanted text" on the web, and that you originally intended for the web to have scientific papers, not having pictures. What are your thoughts on &lt;img&gt; ?
http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/NeXT_Computer
Yes, thinks like instead of http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/c having  http:/com/redddit/www/r/IAmA/c for example I thought about, and would probably have been a  more flexible and consistent idea. 
What is the most unexpected development of the internet for you?
Sir TBL..  What are your thoughts on providing accessible [usable] internet to the deprived communities/regions of the World? Isnt it about time there is some significant investment done in this area by the tech giants, supported by tech community leaders like yourselves?
Non-mobile: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NeXT_Computer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NeXT_Computer)  ^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F)
Maybe 2.0 = silos of user-generated content and 3.0 = breaking out of those silos and user-controlled data
Hello from Canada Sir Tim... What internet connected machine/device would you most like to see get developed (eg. cooking, sleeping, sex)?
Will another service running on the internet ever overshadow the World Wide Web?  What kinds of emerging technologies or services do you think will change the internet/WWW the most?
What is your most frequented website?
How often do you Google yourself? 
Hi! I was just wondering what your current thoughts on the Semantic Web are. Is it plausible, or is it really just a pipe dream at this point? Thanks! :D
[deleted]
I don't get it. Care to explain? :)
Who are you and what did you do with Al Gore?  Seriously, what's the most important piece of advice you can give non-tech people who use the internet?  (Like, uh, my mother-in-law, yes, this is for my mother-in-law.)
[deleted]
Thats legitimate if youre in control, not if the manufacturer of your heart monitoring device has to pay your IPS for prioritized access.
What do you think about web 2.0, which has probably as most significant characteristics 'content generated by users' and do you think there will be web 3.0 and which characteristics it will have?
Well, the fact is that machines are becoming smarter. It seems unreasonable not to imagine that they will become smarter than us.  What happens at that point is not obvious.  That we have to think about it now is clear.  
Perhaps at that point you would be better of going to the hospital.  Edit: just clarify, I don't think we need to have two system to upload our Fitbit data.
Wouldn't that imply the business model of the Internet would need to change first?  And dear God do I hope you're right about user-controlled data.
I wonder what are your thoughts on AI ?
It's definitely in the Science Museum atm - not sure if its a loan or a permanent move http://www.theinquirer.net/inquirer/news/2333704/sir-tim-berners-lees-next-cube-computer-goes-on-display-in-london
Do you get any royalty or something?
I have a bad feeling that in 25yrs - asked as a *turing question* - the answer will **not** be "people".
Do you ever introduce yourself as the inventor of the internet? I would!
What is your favorite website? 
I cannot see him saying IE to this one...
There are some, what about prioritized emergency services. Today they are running in a separate network, but does that make sense in the future to build different infrastructure  
[deleted]
Sir Tim, what do you think about the neck-breaking speed at which the hardware and software is becoming obsolete?  And a quick one, OS-X, windows, or Linux? (Why, if you please)  Thanks! 
There's more detail on gender issues online in the Web Foundation's Web Index - http://thewebindex.org/report/#4._the_web_and_gender_inequality
[deleted]
Greetings from Canada...  what books and/or comics inspired your love of technology as a kid growing up? 
I think HTML5 is a horrible spec, poorly written, full of questionable design choices, dodgy semantics, and promotes lazy markup practices.  XHTML2 was superior in every respect.  What can developers like me who have actually read and critically considered HTML5 do to actually fix it? 
Hi Sir Lee, I am from India which is still on the cusp of its Internet Breakthrough. How feasible do you think in developing countries is 100% connectivity of Internet to all its citizens? Also please tell if you have ever been to India and what did you least like about the country?
Touch.
"Hey, is it OK if we establish an endowment for your foundation/consortium/retirement?" "Yeah, sure!" 
You have enslaved entire generations with your invention, yet you come here with your head held high?
mango lassi 
[deleted]
How could I measure that?
What is your personal favorite website or thing to do on the internet in your free time?
I apologize if someone has already asked this, but what are your thoughts on bitcoin, and cryptocurrencies in general? Cheers
Hello Sir Tim Bernes-Lee: * What are your thoughts on all the new single page application frameworks for creating websites?
Why didn't you reject the knighthood? Not saying you should have, just interested as you seem a level headed bloke. Why get involved in all that nonsense? 
[deleted]
What is your opinion ON VR like the oculus rift and how these technologies could be used in the future?
[deleted]
even I do
then you use a dedicated route (which also goes over "the internet", confusing I know) that has commissioned the appropriate capacity to ensure delivery.  such is the problem with the issue of net neutrality, the people's understanding of how traffic is delegated is so fundamentaly flawed that it just isn't possible to discuss unbiased quality of service without confusing priority and capacity
"Can it it be fast enough" depends on what "it" is and may be a PhD project. In the crosscloud project at CSAIL we are trying to break the link between apps and data, so you can use any app and tell it where to store the data where you control the data.  Data stores become commodities. That could be a first step to moving the data into more of a peer-peer system without conventional servers at all.    
The circle.
If you could go back in time and rename what today is referred to as the "web", what would you call it?
Tim probably won't answer this because I imagine he is still sore about it but here goes.  Tim Burners Lee used to be good friends and partners with Al Gore, yes the former Vice President and climate change discoverer. They did everything together, it's even alleged they had a shared mistress. The two had a falling out after Tim published his paper announcing the discovery of the internet without including Gore's name on the research. So Tim get's all the credit but Al Gore also invented the internet. 
&gt; We need to keep it decentralized both technically and socially. We need to protect our rights using both code and law.  Shameless plug:  /r/darknetplan  /r/Rad_Decentralization  
I have 2 diverse questions Sir Tim 1. Delving into Robotics for the future of technology? 2. How do you really feel about Al Gore getting credit for your most amazing and awe inspiring achievement?
I have no idea where you must live, where you have so many different ISPs to choose from, that you can pick one that focuses on prioritizing gaming. If there was true open competition in the ISP marketplace, then net neutrality would be less important, since customers could simply move to another ISP that served their needs.
Do you think keyboards and mice will be obsolete in the future?
maybe we should start a gofundme and make this so
The spirit of global collaboration among all the people working on it. 
did you ever imagine that Internet could also become the ultimate source of False Information as well?
It has to be porn, I mean cum on.
Oh, sure. Not Goatse. Definitely not Goatse.
What is a good way of studying and retaining knowledge?
That sounds great, but "gets to go first" would be prohibited under "non-discrimination" rules as they have been applied - which literally means the packet that comes in first leaves first. There is no prioritization. Even basic packet detection that would allow for game traffic prioritization has been challenged.  This is why a lot of gamers rightfully have serious concerns about the impact of jitter and latency under a net neutrality system. The net neutrality rules, as crafted, would prohibit MS or Sony a deal that sees game traffic get priority over things like Netflix or email.
Over 26 years of the World Wide Web, what is your most favourite website design?
Where do you see Web 3.0 or Web 4.0 taking us? What can we accomplish with these future technologies we've not even considered yet?
Are you familiar with the concept of lowest common denominator in math? That's exactly what you will end up with. You will not get a GREAT connection for anything, you'll get a mediocre connection for everything. 
But is 'best effort' always good enough for what we want to use technology for in the future. How do we classify services that can live on best effort, and the ones that can not? I dont need the same priority/quality for my email as I do for my streaming. Not to mention the heart monitor. So is it ok all are getting equally bad quality?
[deleted]
There was a rumor circulating, or rather possibly a quote from you floating around, that you regret the double slash in protocol definition (for example http://) due to the lack of necessity of the extra slash and creation of "cruft" ad infinitum. Is that true and do you still feel that way today? What would you do differently or do you see the need for double slashes in protocol definitions to change in the future?
I could have sworn I saw it in Glasgow
Hi Tim!  Thanks for doing this. Do you play/what is your favorite video game(s)?
[deleted]
What's your favorite website?
The web has been evolving new specifications and new capabilities that are changing how we develop for it and what the experience can be (example: WebRTC enabling real time communication). But what about the web-browser/user-agent? Is there anything you find  interesting or encouraging in the recent relationships between people and the thing they use to experience the web, their user agent?
Agrred. I have tried to touch on that in other answers.   What we concentrate on in dig.csail.mit.edu is RE-decrentralizing the web.
I mean how did it affect you socially and mentally? 
It's a good thing I wasn't asking Tim, then :)  Anyway, thanks for your reply, but it seems to me your story is wrong. Al Gore isn't mentioned in the Wikipedia page for "History of the WWW", and then there is this: http://www.boutell.com/newfaq/history/gore.html  Or you were making a joke I didn't get.  edit: wtf, am I drunk or something? Yes, your story explains the original question to TBL. But I honestly hope noone here believes it.
Hi Sir Berners-Lee, Aren't critical applications e.g. heart monitoring, security and safety giving good enough reasons to differentiate types of internet traffic? Thank you! 
Did you have any idea how big an impact the internet would have on humanity?
Professor, first of all, thank you for the world wide web, it has shaped my life, truly. (I'm 18 so I've grown up with it), did you have distinct thoughts when your first "version" of the world wide web worked? Did you think it would be revolutionary or did you shrug it off as a neat little trick you made your computer do?
What do you think of ideas such as a "brain-net" where the internet would be based in our minds? Do you see this as ever feasibly possible?
What is the worst/best/your favorite Rule 34 example? 
Did you ever foresee that Web will become a cross-platform infrastructure for applications? Considering that, what would you change and why?
/r/firefoxmasterrace  Edit: Wow, actually exists.
Have you ever thought about trying to start over from scratch with new protocols and security? Possibly even privatized? Also, do you think net neutrality should even be an issue, or should the government just leave well enough alone. 
astalavista would put up a keygen for it
Android vs iOS? 
[deleted]
There's a TED talk on building the Web We Want here: http://www.ted.com/talks/tim_berners_lee_a_magna_carta_for_the_web?language=en. On Net Neutrality specifically, are you thinking of TBL video message to FCC a couple weeks back? That's here: https://vimeo.com/120794244 
A company I did some work for got hit by the new version of CryptoWall recently, via someone's PA opening a dodgy Word document. The malware encrypted a bunch of her files (renamed them to blah.doc.ecc) and then went to work on their entire SAN, which was accessible from the victim laptop. AV caught it 8 hours later (new sig in the latest definitions), by which time it'd encrypted a few hundred thousand documents.  You'd think this sounds dire, but one of their sysadmin guys shrugged it off like it was nothing. CryptoWall keeps a log of all the file names it has encrypted, so he wrote a powershell script to go through and revert all the files to their previous shadow copies and they were back up and running after an hour. No ransom paid, all files restored.  They now have heuristics on the SAN to catch these operations in real-time.
Furry porn.
What do you believe is the thing that can exceed the power of the web?
How do you feel about the cute cat gif side of the Internet?
Do you have any experience with projects involving the Federated Social Web, such as Diaspora, RedMatrix, StatusNet, etc? If so, what do you think of user-run decentralized communication hubs?
So you're saying that Web 2.0 is like a big truck that you can just dump something on?
Do you ever regret inventing the internet? I think its inevitiable that we would have some form internet today regardess if you invented it or not (maybe designed different with different standards). But do you, yourself, feel personally responsible for initiating the beginning of the end of world?
Hello Tim!  Amazing work on setting up the internet ;) on to my question!  Do you believe that the internet in the coming future will start more to take on the form of an open world virtual reality setting? And what do you think of the coming advances in VR tech and how it will affect the world?
Install PGP compatible encryption on your mailer.  Get a geek friend to help, as it has not been made very smooth. Hopefully it will soon. That's a simple practical step.  Limit the organizations you give data to  to ones you get value from, like magazines and (reddit and) clothes shops you buy from for example.    Buy the pro version of an app where the free version pays for itself by ransacking your privacy.
Hi /u/timbl ! Three questions:  * I more or less, grew up on the Internet. My current job is a full-stack software engineer, so I wouldn't have a job if it wasn't for the Internet. How can I improve or contribute to the Internet?  * Where do you think the future of the Internet is going?   * Where do you think it should go?  Thank you so much for your time.
Did you ever consider Earth Encompassing Entanglement (EEE.) instead of WWW?
We act as if "Government" is some other-worldly-being.  The first thing we need to do is stop our goddam apathy and start electing officials for more than pleasing 30 second sound bites and who has the best attack-ads. /end-rant
Just a quick point, when addressing someone who has been knighted, the correct form of address is 'sir (first name)'
I'm actually glad you didn't pick that option. I have enough trouble getting people to properly filter paths to avoid traversal bugs, let alone trying to get them to properly distinguish between TLDs, domains, subdomains, paths, and file paths when they all have the same separator character.
Hello Tim,  What are your opinions on how so severly teenagers today are engaged online and how even general conversations have become more eletronic than face-2-face. Did you imagine this would happen at the start? 
Hello Sir Tim Do you think that people should have the right to sell or withhold data about themselves: essentially, to own their own data and its use? Why should other people make money out of my data and not give me some?
you lived in colehill ? !!! yea the barley mow is still there. if you ever go for a pint ill come and join you 
Is it a crazy idea if in a world where "you control the data" to have people be able to monetize that data?  If data of a person is (hypothetically) worth $10 a month to google, why should they not get a share of that? Advertiser money would actually go to those who give something up to be targeted.
What about the internet do you feel needs to be most improved upon?
I don't know if this has been asked yet, I'm currently working (don't tell on me). But how did the idea of inventing the Web come up? I could picture that meeting, "Hey, let's shake things up a bit".
Hi professor!   How you feel the internet may change how it operates, and how you think it may change other business over the next 10 years?
Is it a crazy idea if in a world where "you control the data" to have people be able to monetize that data? If data of a person is (hypothetically) worth $10 a month to Google, why should they not get a share of that? Advertiser money would actually go to those who give something up to be targeted.
Hi Tim,  Not ones asked you yet so I will. How are you today?
The answer would be cats, and everyone would still be unsure if it's an AI or a person.
Hey Sir Tim, what's your opinion of pirating? :)
Hello!  What has been the most surreal moment for you following your invention of the World Wide Web?
Around 01-02, IE was actually following all the html standards that Netscape (now FF) chose to ignore.
HTTP+TLS is important. We need to review the ways by which our systems trust particular certs.  We need to use client cert more.   We need to be able to set up family certs and so on without huge cost, or relying on the external PKI.   We should be able to make out own PKI. By default, we should store IoT data in the house and analyze it within the house without having to go through an untrusted cloud system just to get functionality.  The keys we use for things like TLS, GPG, SSH should be interoperable....
Hi Tim, Did you ever get paid for making the WWW? 
[deleted]
Hi Sir Berners-Lee!  I am an HTML5 developer, and a few years ago when I started working with it I thought "This is the future, this is amazing."  However, certainly in the future we will create even more amazing web based things. What is your prediction, based on how the internet is moving, on where the internet will be in 10 years?
[deleted]
I don't suppose this will be well-received but I am going to try anyway.  There are a LOT of people who do not use computers, let alone the internet. They don't play games, or get their news, or interact with their friends using a computer. They are not all old people.  Is there any feeling that maybe something could be done to bring them into the fold? Is the only strategy to let them die out over time?  The psychology of late-adopters is very much different than those who are early to late to eventual adopters.  I have a few simple ideas to share if there is interest.
&gt; Barley Mow  Soon to have a bronze sign: "The creator of WWW was here!" (well, that or writing on the bathroom wall)  http://i.imgur.com/GMwinco.png  [Google maps](https://www.google.ca/maps/place/Barley+Mow+Inn/@50.82043,-1.956274,3a,75y,120.76h,74.95t/data=!3m5!1e1!3m3!1s7renArvsBiIAAAQIt3bUPQ!2e0!3e2!4m2!3m1!1s0x4873a4a6765bb87f:0xa1cedacb94ecdbed)
Was the world wide web invented for communication purposes mainly? if it was did you worry about how human beings could use it as a weapon? :~) thank you
*[DANKNESS INTENSIFIES]*
Hello, my name is Ed Forsyth. But you can call me Edward or Mr. Forsyth.  What are your favorite hobbies? What are your favorite TV shows?
First, thanks for the major contribution to the world. I'm a people person, too. I love to think about how people interact with technology and how to make the experience more meaningful.  My question is: How do you see the future of the interaction between people and local mom and pop shops?
What are your thoughts on AI monitoring us for our own protection? do you think it's a possibility? do you think it would be a good idea?
As they say in Kingsman, we don't even know what the Chinese spy agency is called.
Hey professor! What is your opinion or stance on what Edward Snowden did? There seems to be 3 opinions I have found taking to other people. 1) he's a traitor 2) he's a patriot 3) who is this snowden and why should I care about the government's keeping all my info? "I'm not a criminal" 
[deleted]
My bad!
[deleted]
I was watching the Olympics opening ceremony on my laptop when you did that thing...  so thanks! ;)  how much wood would a wood chuck chuck if a wood chuck could chuck wood?
Sir Berners-Lee. I'm a developer with a desire make the use of privacy tools for the net painless. Should I begin with TOR, PGP or is there something else you see as more urgent  e.g. for journalists/whistleblowers?
What's the best way to get countries with censored Internet (China, Russia etc.) to be connected with the rest of the world?
He's a scientist, not a celebrity.
Wow, I just did a presentation last week and I mentioned you having the first web page (I'm creating my Senior Design project on auto-generating websites).  Anyways, where do you see the future of the internet going?  It's a vague question I know but from the time you found WWW, did you expect it to have as much of an impact on daily life as it does today? Where do you see it going from here?
[deleted]
[deleted]
I Google myself every night (   )
Firstly, thank you. And I have a serious question. Is the internet really for porn? What do you think of the changes in peoples' perception of sexuality because of the internet?  
Did you anticipate that most of the webpages that people looked at would be computer-generated, i.e. not handwritten HTML? How do you see the future of the web as a remote computing platform?
in ladygaga's, i believe
You are my role model! What would you tell your younger self if you could talk to him? What are your plans for the future? 
     The flower would have also been acceptable.
Hello, professor Tim! I'd like to ask you about the way you thought of the WWW. So, what was the actual thought process?
&gt;  Milestone? When I have enough bandwidth to bring me a scene in wrap-around HD so my eyes and ears can't tell I'm not in the other place.  Sounds like you would be down for a VR goggle/helmet setup of some type. What are your thoughts on full digital upload of yourself if/when possible in the future? Do you think the internet can ever be secure enough for such a thing?
Hi Sir!  I'm sure you know the work of the late Aaron Swartz on the Web. How can we continue Aaron's work by making information free and accessible?
[deleted]
Yes, I got them confused thank you so much. 
You are an inspiration to many people, is there anybody who inspires you in anyway?  
http://niceme.me
An extremely wealthy person noted recently that he got rich by: *being in the right place at the right time*... he added... *of course it takes massive amounts of hard work and dumb luck to make sure you're in the right place at the right time.*
Hi Tim,  What's your OS &amp; browser of choice, and why?
with IPv4 being introduced in 1984, at what point did you think that running out of IP addresses will be a issue, and your initial thoughts on Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)?
In my opinion DANE is a good step in the right direction: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS-based_Authentication_of_Named_Entities
That is sooooo good!
Thanks very much for the reply! Great advice.
TIP: have some kids point at you laughing... post the video on the internet.  *DONE*
[deleted]
My job and so much more exists because of you, so thank you very much ! Do you remember what you thought the future for HTTP would look like when you first started ? 
How do you feel about The FCC recently deciding to prevent 'fast' and 'slow' from happening?  Do you want to see other governments make similar decisions?
I like these ideas.  I wouldn't have thought of peer-to-peer net.  I like it.
I went to Emanuel, your old school. As a punishment they used to make us stay for an hours detention on a friday and copy out wikipedia pages including your biography. How does it make you feel that your lives work was used as a punishment?
Politics is just an interactive game show.
It has become easier to learn anything from the web then it is to learn in educational branches. Do you think that the web will completely take over in a few years?
[deleted]
What were the parameters of your vision when you first began to think about this? BTW, thanks for the internet and what not. It's pretty cool.
Can I have that AMA paper?
Hello Professor! One question:  What is your favorite thing to do on the internet today?
Is the next version of the internet a thing? What will be the differences?
Al Gore says HE invented the internet and multiple TV shows have made fun of him for saying that, many times. South Park makes the best Al Gore jokes ever :'D
I didn't mean ethics of Videogame journalism either, I was mostly referring to the rape and death threats many women gamers got in the fallout of that nuclear fueled inferno. 
[deleted]
Hi Tim, what do you think on Googles growth? It seems they could drastically change what people see on the web in an instance if they wanted. Do you think this is good for the web or possibly detrimental?
I kinda disagree about how reddit works, but this is the inventor of the Internet so I'm going to shut up
Hi Tim! Greatest of respect.  Do you react to obvious misinformation about you? I saw Huw (sp?) Edwards on the BBC One News at Ten refer to you as the 'inventor of the internet' a few weeks ago when there was a news story about you. My question is: did you slap him or thank him for the upgrade?
Hi Profesor Tim,  What could be the best advice to maintain privacy in the web? (Government and its control policies)
[deleted]
The new thanks obama since that's dead now
Is there anything that you would have changed about the World Wide Web?
VPOTUS, best POTUS
Except he didn't invent the Internet.
What's your bitcoin address?
So dank
Why do you think he built it?
Dear Sir Tim Berners-Lee,  What do you think needs to happen before SemWeb finds wide adoption?
Tim didn't invent the Internet, he invented the Web. (Distinction: the Web is what you do in a web browser. Email is not the web.)  It's like the distinction between New York City and New York State.
Yeah, truth of the matter is men and women on both sides have gotten death threats to themselves and their families as well as got SWATed or have their employers called and given fake "anonymous tips" to get them fired.  The last one happens overwhelmingly to the "pro-GamerGate" side. I'm currently trying to help a friend of mine recover who got fired from her job due to private medical info being socially engineered out of her and then given to her employer.  She's already been kicked out of her home and is about to be cycled out of the homeless shelter. I just paid a month of her living expenses out of my own pocket so she won't live without a roof over her head for a month until her next job starts.  So yeah, I'm extremely bitter about how one-sided the news reporting has been.  I still don't know why such a nonsensical and one-sided narrative has been pushed so hard.
Searching for pr0n before there was more than one server on the network.
What's your most favorite communication protocol on the internet? (Gopher, WAP, HTML, Usenet, etc)
What do you think about the Internet of Things?
So &lt;meta name="expectation" content="expected"&gt;
Yeah I knew the distinction, just forgot the difference between the terms for a second, updated :)
He didn't invent the Internet. He invented the World Wide Web. 
"Inventor of the World Wide Web" FTFY
Hi, do you think the platform you were using (NeXT*) was an important part of your work ? accelerate prototyping ? even fueled new ideas ?
Not to mention it was in the air,  the venerable BYTE magazine had multiple articles on hypertext before he came out with his internal to cern stuff on top of archie. 
Is that really the case? Aren't municipal fiber networks consistently outperforming private ISPs?
Tim, what is your thoughts on the "deep web"?
Can I examine that script? :) 
How do you think the WWW can help in the developing world, especially in third world countries?
     I didn't know I could do this. I'm going to start doing this.
Yeah okay but sounds a lot more dramatic that way
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Well, the way he uses it (to reply to 50 top-level comments in sequence, once a year) is vastly different from the way most people use it (semi-randomly going into nested comments, ad nauseum).
Hi Tim, I'm from East Sheen and regularly do my uni work at the library you have a mosaic dedicated to you at. Just wondering if you have any particular memories of growing up here?
meta
I remember reading all about your works as a child, back when I insisted on having a subscription to WIRED magazine. Then, later in high school and college, truly learning about what it took to make the web possible.  What happened to NeXT? It actually secured a place in pop cultural history thanks to the '90s anime, Serial Experiments Lain. Were you aware of that?
Hi Tim, probably too late for a reply but what was your time at Emmanuel school like? I went there and was wondering how it was back when you were there.
Why did you allow DRM in HTML5 ?
What was the internet like before the World Wide Web was invented? I know that the oldest domain name was registered in 1985. What would individual websites have looked like back then? Were there any major differences between different websites? How were domain names registered back then?
Dear Sir Tim,  Thank you very much for your invention.   Do you ever respond to people who ask what your name is, with a monty pythonesque ".. there are some who call me .. Tim" ?
Hi! Do you like MMORPG's and do you play any? :)
Does it bother you that the "world wide web" is devolving into the "Facebook-wide-web".  Or, in other words, a platform meant to connect the documents of people to people, has become one where documents are traded for eyeballs in closed systems that leave people forgetting about an "open" web?
[deleted]
If the net goes down it makes sense to have an alternative network for life-saving services.
[deleted]
[This guy?](http://xkcd.com/705/)
"Inventor of thongs" sounds more dramatic, too, but that doesn't make it any more true.
Hello!  Thanks for taking some time to chat with us.  My question is this: what do you envision the web looking like in 50 years?
Oh my god. Colehill born and raised, never knew this. This has totally made my day! Hi from a fellow ex-Colehillite!
Was the hitchhiker's guide by douglas adams an inspiration for the www?
Could somebody explain this in a more accessible way please? 
The lesson here is:  # Backup your shit!  http://www.worldbackupday.com
What do you think is the best way to navigate the future of allowing digital content creators to make a living but maintain net neutrality?
Do you thanked Steve Jobs for helping you make the WWW? I mean its his NeXT computer and Objective-C his company founded that help you create the web. 
Yeah, /u/ableyoungthug was joking with you.   [This article](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/fact-checker/wp/2013/11/04/a-cautionary-tale-for-politicians-al-gore-and-the-invention-of-the-internet) explains the origins of the joke.
Don't worry, even with Source Control I can't seem to figure out how my GET requests end up working
[deleted]
Do you think the Internet has brought about a better world?
I don't know why you're discussing client side NICs when the topic of net neutrality applies to the end to end service that is the internet. NICs have 0 to do with net neutrality. How you decide to communicate (via the NIC of your choice) with the internet does not have an impact on net neutrality. Web browsers already do this, CPUs already do this, everything within a computer already prioritizes data. But you wouldn't suggest that because they prioritize data that they're violating the concept of net neutrality.  What net neutrality comes down to is after your NIC, you trust that your bandwidth is as important as anyone else's. Anything prior to that doesn't relate to net neutrality.  I'm not even going to discuss net neutrality either for or against, I just want to point out that you're relating two different concepts entirely. 
What are your thoughts on net neutrality?
Jesus fucking Christ. I got hit by this a week ago. Lost almost a terabyte of files. 
Is it possible to make technology too human?
Is the puppy mechanical in any way?
So glad to see you doing an AMA!  1.)  Do you have any ownership over the WWW?  2.)  Were/are you paid at all for its creation?  If so, by who?  3.)  Did you think it would get popular or revolutionize the world, as it did?  4.)  What do you think of companies like Comcast?
[deleted]
Have you ever received criticism for creating the WWW?
Never has "OP" been more fitting.  Sir, how do you feel on a day to day basis about the Internet as it is today?
What question would you ask the inventor of the web if it weren't you?
Hello! Thank you for taking your time for this AMA.  Did you ever expect your idea, or proposal of the World Wide Web to be this big? What are your plans for the future?
he just had to press the backspace to clear "8====D~~~~"
In your opinion, what is the most important accomplishment that the Internet has made possible?
Why not continue letting the servers compress the payload as they are?  What you're proposing would essentially kill off quick proof of concept of pages written in Notepad/vim/whatever, testing out an HTTP server with telnet, and probably a bunch of other really simple tasks developers and tinkerers take for granted.  You also are still inevitably still going to need some plain-text "precompiled" format for sharing snippets, learning/classroom tools, source control, etc.
New versions of cryptowall are smart enough to delete shadow copies. 
What do you see as being inhuman about the Internet?
What is your favorite video game?
Hello Sir Tim, I had a brief chance to speak to you at Queens College last November, but as I was working could not dodge my job for too long, I meant to ask you on your opinion on public access to the dark net, whether it should be legal to enter and if it should be policed or not? Thanks once again, a humble waiter
HTTP/2 is currently facing a lot of negative feedback (for example from [Poul-Henning Kamp](http://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=2716278)). What's your oppinion on this matter and how would you design a protocol for today's World Wide Web if you could start from scratch?
The server is definitely not in the Science Museum right now. I was visiting CERN today and I took these two photos of that web server! Check the metadata if you don't believe me.   http://imgur.com/yfiVSEu http://imgur.com/IRD7Q5k 
What did you think of Republicans utility tax proposal?
Or... perhaps on a scale of:            Gaga &lt;--&gt; Mother Teresa for women.  What would the scale be for men??
He invented my sex life, and for that I am forever grateful.
[deleted]
    test post please ignore
For fun, what are your general thoughts on the development machine intelligence? I know that it is impossible to forecast, but if you had to give it a shot...what do you see?
&gt; dig.csail.mit.edu  my god, your subdomains have subdomains... 
Bournemouth born. I feel proud being a mere 20 miles away.
Bieber &lt;--&gt; Nelson Mandela.
Was google a good thing for www - what other development could have been better?
[deleted]
He never said he invented the Internet. You're just repeating political campaign propaganda. 
Medicaid? In the UK? Lol
You've invented the internet...but have you ridden the mighty Moon Worm?
This is an awesome thread. Since everyone is asking the obvious important questions, I'll ask the not so important questions.  - Where do you stand on legalization of cannabis? (I'll take a simple or in depth answer)  - What do you think is the best way to quit a job?  - Are you inspired by the fact there are people out there making a living sitting in front of the beast you have created, or discouraged? (simple or in-depth accepted, I'm primarily speaking on gaming/youtubing/streaming more so than office jobs or coding, but it applies to both)
Hi Tim! What web browser do you use and why?
Really the only way to fix a crypto attack is patch the security breach and recover from backup. Some versions of crypto don't encrypt they just overwrite the first set of bits in the document rendering them unusable and unrecoverable.
[deleted]
See also: https://webbyawards-com-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/W3C20-anniversary-symposium-2014.jpg
CryptoLOCKER actually amazed me, it was an incredible piece of software and just an idea in general.
[deleted]
In lieu of the *would you rather fight 100 duck sized horses* question:       Tabs or spaces?  also: what is your prefered subversioning system?
The machine is at CERN, I actually saw it in person today. See my other post for the photos. 
Frog detection?
Hey, Tim. I did a project on you in elementary school, big fan... What is your opinion on the "new media" the web has created? (ie. Youtube, Instagram, ETC.) Do you like to take part in it?
Hey Tim.  The internet has and will lead humanity for generations to come. How has it affected your life so far?
Tea or coffee, and how do you prefer it?
Do you still support DRM? Why or why not?
Hey tim, just want to say, without you, my life would literally have no purpose ^_^ my question is, do you ever think about how different the world would be without the www?
 Not MEMED   MEMED
Just an aside note: if users are selling their data and making all the profit off of it, the people developing the software would have to be losing massive revenue. Which would probably lead to less awesome software.
It may have been recorded in history that the www was invented to share academic papers and work material, but we all know he just wanted a more convenient way to access the porn server. 
And if the alternative network goes down I hope they can also run off the net.  It doesn't make sense to cordon off services -- they're better served by joining as many network points together for better redundancy / coverage. That's the point of an *inter*net.
I think he just answered the question.. "hmm GET seems to work". Cheeky guy. ;)
Sir Berners-Lee is dank . . . omg the feels
[deleted]
Actually it would be Lord [insert name of peerage here].  For example, it's Peter Carington, but Lord Ca*rr*ington. It normally is the person's last name, but not always.   Source: I know a lot about Lords.
&gt;:')  FTFY
Dear Professor Berners-Lee. What are your thoughts on the developments of machine learning protocols? Do you think that machine learning combined with Internet interconnectivity could lead to singularity? Also, Thanks for inventing the internet. Its pretty cool stuff!!
I second. It sounds very intriguing, but I must admit I did not understand very much, and just searching the different acronyms etc did not do a whole lot for my understanding, other than it is something with who and how we give permissions between computers.
"They're pretty dank"
Thank you so much for inventing the internet it has changed the way our world works made communications easy, connected people and brought room for so much inspiration so my question is how did you get the idea for the internet?
Just to clear a few things up because it seems many people think Berners-Lee invented the internet itself (?):  The internet is the internet protocol suite, specifically the TCP/IP protocol, invented by Robert Kahn and Vinton Cerf, two Americans working for the US military. It's the technology that actually transmits data. It is THE internet. Originally it was a US military network called ARPANET, when it was expanded to civilian and global use, it became the internet.  The web came later. The web is a system of code that is transmitted VIA the internet, that only serves to compile data and then display it in a visual interface in a browser. Tim Berners-Lee took existing hypertext code (invented by an American) and just created the first monolithic system of hypertext that became standard. He did not invent the internet, the internet was invented before he even started his work.  Claiming that Tim Berners-Lee invented the internet would be like someone claiming they designed a car when all they did was paint the exterior red.  Robert Kahn and Vinton Cerf are scientists/engineers. Tim Berners-Lee is just a code monkey. It's an atrocity that people keep crediting him with the invention of the internet.
Your IT guy is better than my IT guy. 
Exactly! Or, just follow the Brianna Wu Google+ and get an idea of how she thinks that she is "underprivileged" because her atrocious video game doesn't take off.
&gt; ~~Agrred~~ Agreed  FTFY  Am I now allowed to boast that I corrected the inventor of the WWW?  
What's your best advice for innovation?
Well it's the Ministry of State Security that oversees such. Doesn't do a whole lot to know the title though.
But what about Al Gore???  D;
Sir Tim, have you ever been sat at your computer frolicking on the web and just been blown away by what your creation has become?
Are you ever coming back to Star Island?
And in extension, the applications and services being built on top (such as):  *  augur.net *  ethereum *  OpenBazaar *  Storj *  Maidsafe  And other various technologies that aim to bring trustless interactions on a global playing field without counterparties or premium fees paid to trust-keepers.
[deleted]
Hi Tim,          With the strides that we're doing , and all thanks especially to you, Which do you think will be the next "BIG Invention/implementation"  about the Web, in the next 50 years?       In a nutshell I'm asking you a prediction of a big event, You expect might happen.             Edit: Damn the AMA is over :(       
Turned a little pirate there? Agrr
Fine. *sigh*      $ telnet tim 80     Trying tim...     Connected to tim.     Escape character is '^]'.     GET /what-do-you-think-about-memes.html HTTP/1.1     Host: tim     User-Agent: peat     Language-Accept: en-US 
To be fair, meme theory already existed prior to the WWW. The ease of communication that came with the internet gave it the extra steam necessary to take the form we now know them as. 
Did you invent the web for the purpose of sharing pornography? If not, how do you feel that that has evolved as one of its main purposes?
&gt; Have a pint of Tanglefoot for me at the Barley Mow  This might be the most British sounding thing I've ever read.
[deleted]
[deleted]
I think as long as the government is snooping without the peoples' consent, the people will find a way to hide their shit. Encryption will always win out over surveillance - any programmer could come up with a shitty encryption method in an hour that would take the NSA thousands of hours to decipher.  It's in the best interest of govt intelligence to make nice with the people - prove to us that they will use their powers sparingly and for good and we will be less likely to hide from them. We're afraid and concerned about our privacy because we *don't know* what the government really wants with all our data. All we can assume is that dozens of agencies and companies are collecting all of our data to do the most nefarious things imaginable. Google gets away with reading our e-mails because we know what they do with it: serve ads. Greater transparency &amp; accountability from the government could be all the privacy we need.
TIL Sir Tim Berners-Lee has great taste in beer
[deleted]
It takes so much effort, though. :-/
Oh man, you should see what a large-ish software development company's DNS records typically looks like. Think of a dictionary scattered with full stops instead of whitespace.  
Which is why addressing the *massive* technical illiteracy of the general populace should be a huge issue within education. The entire American education system needs to be redone to suit the needs of 21'st century society, because let's face it, the industrial complex it was designed to feed is long gone. 
Managing priorities to reduce latency problems is good service.  Managing priorities to _introduce_ latency problems is fraudulent service.
[deleted]
Sir Tim,  If you've ever had a look through default reddits (such as those that are on the front page of www.reddit.com when not logged in, e.g. [What major events do you think will take place in the next 50 years?](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/2yjqwo/what_major_events_do_you_think_will_take_place_in/), on the front page now), and you had to identify one time where the Internet could still have been saved, how sorry are you that you have let it come to this?  Also: how do we go back?  Thank you.
How does it feel to know that so much of the technology around is depends on your invention?
[deleted]
Le first WWW server
[Only the dankest](http://i.imgur.com/bnWmD60.png).
In my (rather limited, I admit) view, a battle of crypto is a worse case solution.  They'll always win, we need to make them publically accountable, not alienate ourselves further by trying to hide from the people holding all the cards.  Our power through the justice system, accountability of government and pure power of the mob far outweighs any power we could have to fight this sort of thing online.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
    &lt;-- Four spaces before the text.
Where do you see the internet with regards to online privacy? Are you in favor of a clean slate if a user requests it, or is everything meant to be forever?
There's a lot of *serious business* questions in here, so:  What do you typically listen to while you're programming? Music, radio, static on the TV, nothing?
Care to explain the difference? Is everything we use the internet for using WWW?
He invented the world wide web, not the internet. Often confused, but the difference is worth noting because while the WWW was proposed in 1989, the internet has been around in various forms since the early 60's. 
Oh god, don't go calling yourself inventor of the web on Reddit, mate. I've defended this so many times but these darn Americans sure as hell don't like being told you invented it for some odd reason.  Comment got removed as it needs a question, how are you mate?
How do you feel about the huge effect the internet has had on 'centralizing' a lot of our culture. This is especially prominent in music, popular artists are bigger than ever; in part due to the massive exposure generated by the virus like sharing on sites like Facebook and Reddit?
Tim. You've probably been asked this already but just for my own closure. Did you expect this creation of yours to gain the massive usage it has today? 
&gt; invention of the web  FTFY
What's your favorite website?
You should really get out more.
That isn't a status, it's a slogan. It's meaningless. 
Sir! Yes, Sir!
TIL Firefox is an upgraded Netscape navigator
Why did you host it on a NeXTcube? Why not a dedicated group of servers?
Haha he Pwnd you so hard! Roflrofl chop!
Nokia is paying you to do an AMA? This is just a marketing stunt?
Don't you miss the elegance and advanced capabilities of NEXTSTEP on black hardware?  I still have my 1989 Cube.    Thanks for using NeXT to change the world. 
One day account and against net neutrality.   You would not need to prioritize something like that.  If it was that important you would be monitored more closely, not through the internet where a million things could go wrong before the signal is received.  
     This is really cool
No matter what laws you make, the NSA and other parts of the government will simply violate them. Encryption is the only way.
Suddenly_Snowden?
Invented the web? Nice try but you aren't Al Gore
Wait, DNS syntax was Tim Berners-Lee's call to make? I thought the right-to-left dotted hierarchy had already been an established convention for a decade.
The one person I've been waiting to do an AMA, and I miss it.  If you ever check back, what's your favourite flavour of Pringles?
[I doubt it.](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2091d4/i_am_tim_bernerslee_i_invented_the_www_25_years/cg0wpui)
The fact that people get surprised by _this_ makes me cry.
For a second I thought this was going to lead to some premium service to pay for.  What a nice PSA!
     Sorry bud, that joke only works once. 
[deleted]
    Wow, this is really great.
The Reddit mods need to learn from you about censorship being a bad thing.
First of all, thank you so much for giving us this glorious invention. I never knew a world without your work.   Did you have any idea that so much of the web would be porn?   Did you consider how a deepweb would be created? 
https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2091d4/i_am_tim_bernerslee_i_invented_the_www_25_years/cg0wpui
Sir Tim*
ayy
More like M D Y vs D M Y
Imgur auto removes all metadata iirc.
There are various projects out there (FreeNet, Tor, I2P, to name a few well-known ones), which have the aim of creating an Internet which is not only un-censored, but un-censor-able.   - Among these projects, or projects with similar goals, do you have one which you would specifically like to call out in favour of?   - In this area (creating an open-by-design Internet), what would you say is the most important consideration?   - What do you hope to see in the future of such projects?
Pretty much as British as it gets.  Source: am British, have had a pint at the Malt Shovel.
1) Compression only saves bandwidth, but INCREASES the load on the client, because it needs to be decompressed before parsed, tokenized, compiled into a binary DOM representation and then converted into binary rendering tree (or similar) for rendering.  A binary stream saves COMPUTATION and BANDWIDTH (great for mobile devices and increasing page complexity as yesterday's "pages" continue to evolve into remote applications.  We shouldn't keep HTTP/HTML in the stone age just because you want to keep using Notepad, but we ought to instead ADD the possibilty of binary transmission while keeping the legacy intact.  2) Not to mention, I did say "remain plaintext while developing," meaning HTML remains the language to construct/debug pages, but transmission and parsing at the browser level are now pre-parsed/pre-tokenized optimized binary representations by default.   Moreover, Facebook/Twitter/Google already used SPDY instead of HTTP, if your browser supports it, so your argument about hampering developers is invalid.   Moreover, the HTTP2 draft is binary by default and Google is now championing an experimental replacement for using TCP as the HTTP container!  That'll really screw with your terminal experiments.  They want an optimized, somewhat "windowless" UDP based standard that can multiplex requests, maintain open connections and work with connectiosn that hop from WiFi to cell while traveling.  Time to evolve!
    Fantastic!
That took me at least 30 taps to get it to show the image.  I'm on mobile
Videos of pussy, got it
I strongly disagree. Yes it would be wonderful if everyone could become an expert in everything, but that is not attainable. Our current system of each individual specializing in a specific field is much more efficient. I would not want to have my heart surgeon spending time learning about networks in university when he could be concentrating on his field of choice (unless he has a personal interest in networking of course and reads up on it as a hobby).  What we really need is to trust real experts with these sorts of things. I don't know enough about IT to bring much to a debate on net neutrality, and neither does most of the general population. Politicians need to stop trying to dumb things down so the average Joe can understand it.
well I don't disagree, but it's not like I'm saying this should be common knowledge either. I mean understanding topology and routing isn't exactly simple or straightforward for the average person to pick up, it's just important that we know there is a difference, and the concept is much more complicated than the telcos and relevant propaganda want you to believe.  as long as we all understand that **net neutrality and mission critical applications are not mutually exclusive** - this is probably the most common bullet point that opponents try to dumb down and distort in order to scare people out of regulation.  one does not by any means preclude the other
Ayy lmao
[deleted]
Congratulations and thanks for your incredible contribution to computing and humanity.  My question is: now that we've had a couple decades of the web, what is the one thing you wish you could go back and change?
Nice try western digital ceo!
Bob Kahn and Vint Cerf, who invented the TCP/IP protocol, said this about Al Gore, "As the two people who designed the basic architecture and the core protocols that make the Internet work, we would like to acknowledge VP Gore's contributions as a Congressman, Senator and as Vice President. No other elected official, to our knowledge, has made a greater contribution over a longer period of time."  Berners-Lee, however, invented the World Wide Web, not the Internet.
Can I get a "happy birthday" from the creator himself?
Hello Sir Tim, Is there anything that you know now that you wish you knew when you were creating the World Wide Web? Anything you would have done differently? 
I recently looked at the BC school curriculum. The most recent changes to it were removing graphic calculators from the grade 12 math requirements, some minor updates to a few basic science classes, and some stuff was tweaked in French classes. The curriculum for pretty much everything else has remained untouched since the 1980's...
It's amazing that I've never even thought that until now, but what you say is true on so many levels. Most high school courses on computer sciences don't go much further than dicking around in Microsoft Word and Excel. 
Dank meme, m7
[deleted]
Hi! What's your favourite thing to do on the Internet these days?  P.S. you're my hero. :)
[deleted]
I don't care about Brianna or any of the Literally Whos outside of them endangering lives or livelihoods, especially under false pretenses.  I'm doing what I can to fix this mess.  I love gaming and the community too much to not try.
&gt;  Buy the pro version of an app where the free version pays for itself by ransacking your privacy.  Or, better yet, find an alternative for that app. I don't believe that paying money for an app like that sends the right message to the developers of that app.
You think that reddit would be better if it were spelled with three D's? That doesn't sound right, but you are the inventor of the World Wide Web after all so you must know some sort of secret technical aspect of it that makes it superior.
I feel like with the advent of torrents this is more important than ever. We have massive CDNs hosting the bulk of the Internet's content and everyone has to fetch everything from them. If I had a better connection I'd be okay with having a couple terabyte drive just hang off my router/modem and act as a localized CDN for various things like games, OS patches, Netflix, etc. I feel like complaints about network congestion are partially the result of so much traffic being driven toward so few virtual and physical locations. (That and the ISPs just pocketing massive profits rather than building to match their promised throughput.)
True, he didn't invent the concepts- Hypercard was a clear and admitted direct inspiration- every invention has its forebears. That doesn't make writing the first User-Agent for open HTTP and HTML standards any less his invention. [Let's not argue semantics.](http://xkcd.com/1318/)
Net tools can't melt dank memes.
This is wonderful. I thank you for the Internet because it creates a link to others you feel so separate from. Empathy is important and compassion for others, we can experience that from a simple video from across the world!!!
[I wonder how many of these there are?](http://www.heavyblogisheavy.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/Were-not-Worthy.jpg)
Hi Sir Berners-Lee,  Serious questions   (1) Why are all W3C specs and stacks for every standard so verbose and loaded with massive amounts of overhead ? (Best eg: JSON vs XML, RDF vs microformat)  (2) Why is W3C not able to work with ECMA to fix the DOM API and promote good ECMAscript practices and discourage the bad ones ? Can we see a the DOM API implemented without causing developers to hate ECMAScript in the near future ?  (3) What do you think about ECMA 6 ?  (4) Thank you for Linked data. 
Sir Tim, aliens or singularity first? 
[deleted]
[deleted]
We/US know lots of Mary's, shaLL they bee addressed as  Virgin Mary's Something about Mary Being Virgins?  With all "Due Respect" Sir Tim, We/US KNOW 4 FACT Sir Paul was,Knighted.  Who ass igned the title to u in the ranks Chasing u to the top for Payment Due/Internet Work? Mary's lamb followed to School Using playing Hop SCOTCH $!?
&gt;Geek friend  Implying all reddit users are not geeks.
The alt text really struck a chord with me, I've definitely been that borderline sociopathic sysadmin before.
[Here you go.](http://www.webopedia.com/DidYouKnow/Internet/Web_vs_Internet.asp) A nice, concise explanation.
Do you mean NAS? 
Dank maymay bro
I was thinking recently how perhaps machines could become our super organizers (rather than rulers) and work out how we can live together as a global community due to their impartial data analysis. 
To be technical, information transmitted over http or https.   To be very very simple. Web = Web pages. The internet, email, chat rooms,  file sharing all existed before tim invented Web pages as a cool way to look at and share information. The internet existed when he was still a child.   You know the way you can play people over the Internet on xbox live, talk to people on skype etc. Thats nothing to do with the Web.  The Web is something on the internet that Is very popular. That does not make it the internet itself.  For example when he invented the world's first web page, running on the world's first Web server,  viewed in the world's first browser, how did he tell people? He emailed them.  Discussion forums like reddit existed on the internet before the Web also. It was just using other clients rather than a Web browser. Same shit, different way of doing it. The Web took off because it was simple to set up and also he released it for Free. Meaning anyone on the internet could download a web server and create their own site for free if they wanted. It started off very simple,  just text and no user generated content. So it's main use was for people to email each other links to read their essays/thoughts instead of attaching a word processing document that you had no idea if they could even read it because they might not have that word processor installed.  It made it easy for average joe soaps to publish content on the already existing internet
[deleted]
I don't think he invented hands.
Yea, same.~
How does it feel that you created something that billions of people in the world use on a daily basis?
What are your thoughts on net neutrality? Do you make a royalty for companies selling "your" invention? Or how does that work... Did you sell the rights of the internet to a company? 
Email's probably not such a great example nowadays given how many people do email in their browser.
[deleted]
You add an r if they're a lord? 
So basically, he invented websites?
$ ftp tim Connected. &gt; get /password.txt $ telnet tim 21 Username: tim Password: # rm -rf / Remote host closed the connection. $
    HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden     Date: Tue, 10 Mar 2015 19:30:31 GMT     Server: timbl     Connection: close     Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8      &lt;!doctype html&gt;     &lt;html lang="en"&gt;       &lt;head&gt;         &lt;meta charset="utf-8"&gt;         &lt;title&gt;One does not simply...&lt;/title&gt;       &lt;/head&gt;       &lt;body&gt;         &lt;img src="https://i.imgflip.com/io4y2.jpg" alt="One does not simply ask the inventor of the WWW what he thinks about memes."&gt;       &lt;/body&gt;     &lt;/html&gt;
Is it true that you stole the WWW idea from Al Gore?  He says he invented it.
Aw, I love you too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VoW9czgQBqE
[WHERE IS IT, BERNERS-LEE](http://i.imgur.com/2Npgfur.jpg)  I KNOW YOU KNOW
What's user controlled data vs user generated data?
     wat
    Wow
well he gets to
It's like a tree has smaller branches on its branches.
&gt; Wouldn't that imply the business model of the Internet would need to change first?  Pretty much.  The main reason we don't have user controlled data is because everyone wants everything on the Internet to have no cost. The only way that's possible is by monetizing the users of the free service. This is typically done by collecting vast amounts of data about the users and then showing them ads.   Sites like Facebook continue to exist because people ignore the massive privacy issues in exchange for a free service. Even when the service is crap it's still "free" so people use it anyway.  So, yeah, it'd be nice to see a change, but first you're going to have to convince the majority of people to pay for something they're currently getting for free.
TLS (Transport Layer Security) is actually a successor to SSL, the Secure Sockets Layer.  It is an encryption layer beneath HTTP (and other protocols) that encrypts, e.g., the data you download from a website, such as banking details, so that only two computers can understand the data: yours and the web server.  When a connection is made, the two computers have to exchange encryption keys (these would be the public keys referenced in Wikipedia, et. al.) that are used to encrypt and decrypt the data. Because mutual distrust is designed into the system, this negotiation requires proof that you (i.e., your computer) own those keys (to crib Wikipedia, it binds the public key to your identity), and they haven't been hijacked by a third party.  This ownership is established via a certificate (cert), which is digitally signed by a trusted third party called a certificate authority (think notary public). PKI (Public Key Infrastructure) encompasses all that I just described.  If I digested his response correctly, Sir Tim is advocating that we should a) be able to create our own certificates (essentially using our own private PKI--"Private Key Infrastructure," perhaps?) to use, and get them signed by a trusted authority at minimal/no cost, and b) IoT data needs to be largely kept within the house (behind the house's firewall), rather than shoving everything to the cloud by default.  Then, only aggregate data--or none at all--would be exposed on the public internet, encrypted or not.  In short, Sir Tim doesn't see the protocols themselves as the problem; rather, it's the determination of trust, and portability of that trust among different protocols.
TIL. I thought it was more like Mister.
Wait, did Al Gore actually have something to do with the creation of the internet?  I thought that was all made up? 
Tim, when you appeared in the opening ceremony for the London Olympics 2012, my friends reactions were mostly "who is that guy?".   Do you wish you were in the public eye more? Or are you satisfied with being a lesser-known major innovator?   I'm certain you'll get more recognition as the internet develops over the coming centuries.
I'm not asking for expertise out of everyone, but it'd be great if I didn't have to help my college professors *start up a fucking powerpoint.* 
How rich are you? 
Yes.
Gr8 mme m8
Agreed. The same delimiter across the board would have been a nightmare.  
[deleted]
Did you expect the Web would end up being used for cat photos and porn?
not internet, the WWW. 
[deleted]
Do you think Title II utility reclassification is a good or bad thing?
Is
Come to Bath mate, I'll take you to the Westgate for a lovely pint of Old ~~Peculiar~~ Peculier
[deleted]
Manufacturing wave after wave of glorified secretaries who *might* be able to point out the capital of Idaho. 
You're not responding to his comment: that the user needs to be in control. Otherwise you end up with what is happening now, where ISPs are extorting content providers and slowing their traffic.
Thanks for the info. I'm sure I could show the metadata somehow if really necessary.  It is definitely legit though, even the scratch marks on the "Do not power down!" sticker are the same as the photo on Wikipedia. Also that article posted is a year old. 
What type of role do you see the internet playing in our lives in 30 years? Taking into account the boom you have seen happen from the first 26 years of the good ol' WWW.
How does it feel to have created something that has changed the world so much? What's it like to walk around and witness firsthand that you have likely changed the world more that any other person before you?
I am Lord YAYAYA
Yes, it was just me attacking the base of the scandal. I completely agree that this "gate" is useless and without a real base, and ruining life, and communities.
User-controlled = You control it. You know what's being collected about you (your Internet history, your sex life, your fetishes, your purchasing habits, ect...), you know how it'll be used (for the most part), you have programs that let you take advantage of your own data without it being sent off to data aggregators like LexisNexis and sold to whomever wants to purchase it.  User-generated: Companies collect data about you (your Internet history, your sex life, your fetishes, your purchasing history, ect..).  This data may or may not be related to ever providing you a useful service. It is partially being used by insurance companies to help determine your premiums and banks to help determine your creditworthiness.
What is the single most interesting use of the web thus far?
Thanks!
Wars or Trek?
What's your favourite web browser?
How does it feel being the pseudo-grandfather of the famous hacker 4Chan?
I've always believed web standards should be open source. What are you doing to ensure the web stays open and transparent?
Pot que no Los dos? Your doctor still has to learn about certain unrelated topic in undergrad. Why not make "information technology" an undergrad requirement?
I visited the Science Museum last August and it wasn't there. There was a note in it's place saying something about it being unavailable. I was disappointed!
[deleted]
Maybe com.reddit.www/r/iama ?
Are you a liberator or slavemaster?
was it anywhere near the hinderton?
[deleted]
Hello! Do you believe that the internet has made people stupider in general?
Saw it on Sunday, pretty sure it's still there :)
I cry every tim.
there was porn on the internet before there was the Web.   My first uses of veronica and gopher search was to find porn.  a few days of hunting and I found 1 jpg of a chick in a white bathing suit.   I stupidly declared the internet useless and went back to BBS's.  
I would also like to see since my powershell scripting is not great
Why do you think so few people know you invented the internet? It's surprises me since it is something that governs our daily lives.
The [meshnet](http://projectmeshnet.org/).
&gt; If data of a person is (hypothetically) worth $10 a month to google, why should they not get a share of that? Advertiser money would actually go to those who give something up to be targeted.  ...because then Google and other services would charge for their services.
Or think of alternative business models. See: Using your unused computing cycles to crunch data in place of your personal info being collected.
that's so timbl
Agreed on all points. I'm not arguing that everyone should be able to tell me the difference between external and realm trusts, but just enough that policy makers couldn't get away with dumbing the technology down enough to scare those who don't know any better. 
"What got you interested in coding? Did you already have an existing interest in maths for example?"  Also an unrelated sidenote: at the 2012 Olympics opening ceremony where you had a cameo, I gave you a standing ovation. Why is this noteworthy? Because other people in the crowd looked at me as if to say "why is he doing that? Who is this guy?"
The Internet is really really great!  (Sing it with me!)
Read that article.  However, a site the guys used wasn't so SAVORY!! lot more to it?  And if a,wrong number calls a home and the savior pretends it's not him..
What about the rest of your senses?  Are you eager to see the internet delivering things besides sight and sound?
Just by the way, it's Sir Tim, or Sir Tim Berners-Lee, but not Sir Berners-Lee.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sir#British_and_Commonwealth_honorifics
Non-mobile: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sir#British_and_Commonwealth_honorifics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sir#British_and_Commonwealth_honorifics)  ^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F)
That was nearly impossible to *click* on my iPhone. 
lmao
Hey Tim what do you think of stuff going viral and of ISIS and other radicals using the inernet to communicate and recruit?
provided funds.
[deleted]
Where is the xkcd bot?
[deleted]
Too bad GamerGaters, reddit MRAs,  and TRPers missed this phase of their development but it's never too late!
What do you see as the biggest threat to the internet in the near future?  On a lighter note, what untapped potential do you hope to see utilised soon?
[deleted]
The most likely scenario is slow speed for everyone who can't pay for normal speed.
[deleted]
"As far back as the 1970s Congressman Gore promoted the idea of high-speed telecommunications as an engine for both economic growth and the improvement of our educational system. He was the first elected official to grasp the potential of computer communications to have a broader impact than just improving the conduct of science and scholarship [...] the Internet, as we know it today, was not deployed until 1993. When the Internet was still in the early stages of its deployment, Congressman Gore provided intellectual leadership by helping create the vision of the potential benefits of high speed computing and communication. As an example, he sponsored hearings on how advanced technologies might be put to use in areas like coordinating the response of government agencies to natural disasters and other crises."   Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Gore_and_information_technology
 Want to give him gold so bad
    please if you get a chanse put some flowrs on Algernons grave in the bak yard
You do get a share of that, by being able to use Google services.
Just by the way, it's Sir Tim, or Sir Tim Berners-Lee, but not Sir Berners-Lee.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sir#British_and_Commonwealth_honorifics
Non-mobile: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sir#British_and_Commonwealth_honorifics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sir#British_and_Commonwealth_honorifics)  ^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F)
What do you mean "if you're in control"?  If the user is in control of what gets priority then everyone would set their own data to highest priority.
[deleted]
[deleted]
So much this. It's one of the most important things Obama has just missed the boat on, and it's probably too late given the current makeup of congress, though maybe, just maybe we could get some bipartisanship on this one. If anything, I think some of the more moderate Republican ideas for education reform may actually be more successful at achieving improvements in college admissions and standardized test scores, as long as we make sure we are properly aligning the financial incentives for school operators and teachers with students' success and doing so in such a fashion that we don't continue to widen the gap between opportunities in rich/poor schools and our many rural schools (which are more challenging in many ways IMO).  We need to incorporate philosophy, computer science, and economics (both personal and academic finance) into the fundamentals of elementary/middle school curriculum alongside English, reading, math, social studies, history, physical/natural sciences, art/music. Also we need to go much harder in the paint with science and math at much younger ages. I think many students AND teachers are much more capable than we give them credit for, and I don't think teachers should be able to use the unions to acquire concessions like tenure and free themselves from intense (though fairly/intelligently constructed) competition. I don't think the teachers' unions are acting in the best interest of the students, and that's a problem. We need to pay teachers well enough to attract talented people into the profession, but we also must be sure to NEVER allow a veteran teacher to be able to be without fear of pay cuts/possible firing for failing to educate their students at the highest possible standards in competition with their peers. At the same time we should provide teachers with the resources necessary to do that.  Basically we need to have some smart people do a serious inquiry into the methods that have had success around the country and the world and implement them with the goal of restructuring our entire way of doing schooling, including placing academic a compliments ABOVE athletic accomplishments. Our best students, those who win spelling/geography bees, math competitions, score in the top 1% on tests, etc. should be bolstered and given the same adoration or honestly greater than our best athletes get. I guess it cuts at the shallowness of humans in general at least in our country than we value athletic prowess above intellectual, but some very serious and radical inquiry about how to change these things need to be undertaken.  Or we could just beat off.
Ok Al Gore cut it out. We know it's you.
Make this clear for my stupid friends. Did you invent (or discover) the internet (or the web)? 

What's the greatest thing you've seen the web used for?
The HTTP protocol doesn't have to directly embed hostnames.  Other protocols don't.
[deleted]
IIRC, that was standard on other applications, but the separators don't have to be '.' or in order.
[deleted]
&gt; Democracy depends on freedom of speech. Freedom of connection, with any application, to any party, is the fundamental social basis of the Internet, and, now, the society based on it.  \- TBL
How is life as a spider? When you weaved your first web, what was your initial reaction? 
    Holy shit...
The user is in control as in, you've paid for 1 Mbps or 1 Gig and get what you pay for, without your ISP interfering with certain content providers.
It's not about being an expert. No one expects that everyone be capable of troubleshooting anything especially complex, but the number of people who think Facebook isn't on the Internet (as if it's some other, mysterious thing completely distinct from the internet) is completely unacceptable.
&gt; When I have enough bandwidth to bring me a scene in wrap-around HD so my eyes and ears can't tell I'm not in the other place.  VR is coming quickly now, so there's that
[deleted]
u/timbl fix this plz 
What ever happened to wunderkind Marc Andreessen?
Blah blah blah, the vast majority of "censorship" I've seen on reddit has been the OP not following the subreddit rules. The best examples of this is when people post an article on /r/news with their own biased title when the rules specifically state that the title MUST come from the article
Absolutely! That is why we have VPNs and free malware protection. The free ones typically work better than the paid ones because the creators know it is for the best.
what about the dankest of the memes? do you like them?
Did you get a lot of women with that line by the way?  "Yeh so, I invented the WWW"
Why IT? Why not sociology, mechanics, self-defence, law, etc.  There are too many subjects for which it would be nice if people had a better understanding of them. IT in itself doesn't have a better case than others. Reddit and online communities tend to focus on it because it's a bigger part of our daily lives than for many others. Yes, docs already had to learn a lot of unrelated things in their undergrad (in North America that is) but it is almost exclusively science (physics, biologie, etc.). I for one would not support replacing one of their science classes with learning IT, and even less adding another class to their busy schedule.   Think about it, would you suggest everyone should take a class in mechanics? Sure it'd make fixing your car easier, but i'd rather let a real expert deal with it.
Can you please explain? I am not a native english speaker, and I don't think I understand what you say.
Hahah my dad works for the company that makes Tanglefoot 
    Ignoring intensifies
&gt;Suddenly_Snowden  edit: Fuck I missed it /u/grawity
What do you think is the next frontier for the WWW? 
Quite ironic really.
Never said otherwise.    Most everything patented regarding computers in the past 30 years is just stuff that was already done before.    XEROX PARC, etc...  Ad nauseum.   I designed and wrote a system similar to http that ran on DEC systems but it never got bigger than one University.  Meh. 
Gore was an enthusiastic and high profile early supporter of the internet.  I'm not sure what legislation he actually endorsed or wrote at the time that would have helped the internet grow in it's early stages, or how significant / critical it might have been, but his publicity and lobbying efforts might have been more important anyhow.
[deleted]
More from Bob Kahn and Vint Cerf (who is often called the "Father of the Internet"):  &gt;"Al Gore was the first political leader to recognize the importance of the Internet and to promote and support its development.  &gt;...  &gt;As far back as the 1970s, Congressman Gore promoted the idea of high speed telecommunications as an engine for both economic growth and the improvement of our educational system. He was the first elected official to grasp the potential of computer communications to have a broader impact than just improving the conduct of science and scholarship. Though easily forgotten, now, at the time this was an unproven and controversial concept.  &gt;...  &gt;When the Internet was still in the early stages of its deployment, Congressman Gore provided intellectual leadership by helping create the vision of the potential benefits of high speed computing and communication.  &gt;...  &gt;As a Senator in the 1980s, Gore urged government agencies to consolidate what at the time were several dozen different and unconnected networks into an 'Interagency Network.'  Working in a bi-partisan manner with officials in Ronald Reagan and George Bush's administration, Gore secured the passage of the High Performance Computing and Communications Act in 1991. This 'Gore Act' supported the National Research and Education Network (NREN) initiative that became one of the major vehicles for the spread of the Internet beyond the field of computer science.  &gt;...  &gt;No one in public life has been more intellectually engaged in helping to create the climate for a thriving Internet than the Vice President.  &gt;...  &gt;The Vice President deserves credit for his early recognition of the value of high speed computing and communication and for his long-term and consistent articulation of the potential value of the Internet to American citizens and industry and, indeed, to the rest of the world."
Hooray! Everyone is paying attention to me!
Or just use windows file restore to the most recent settings.
[deleted]
Nothing *technical*, but he sponsored a *lot* of legislation in that area. His contributions were very real.
[deleted]
As a young person with much interest in computers, and technology as a whole, yearning to learn more, and enter the field, are there any resources or topics you recommend people like me look into?  P.S. You're an idol to me.
Yea, he took http which already existed, and used the same concept over the Internet, which was already used over other types of networks.
Cat porn..  I bet the Japanese are all over that..
[deleted]
I feel like people are trying to protect the internet as it was in 2003 and are destroying the internet of the future in the process.  
No, that one was just a typographical error, if I recall correctly. But the point is, the name recorded by the College of Arms is the name of the peerage, not the last name of the personeven if it is a typo.  For example, there was later a second man named Lord Carrington, and his title became "Lord Carrington of Fulham," just to avoid confusion from the original Lord Carrington.  Martha Lane Fox became Baroness Lane**-**Fox (see hyphen) in order to go along with parliamentary rules. But yes, generally it is the last name.
After reading that, I suddenly had a bowler hat on my head.  No idea where it came from.
Weighing in on net neutrality actually does require expertise. I am very comfortable with technology, but I know that I am not knowledgeable enough to debate this. This is not a case of knowing how to use excel, and making a web page, there are serious consequences to any decision in this field which none but the most informed can really understand. 
CEO or not, he's got a point...
In short, what?
I think it's pretty easy to argue that the NSA and GCHQ are criminal agencies.  
No. SAN. Storage Area Network.
He pushed to have Arpanet (The Internet) to be public, instead of a private Government network. He saw the big picture of what it could become before anyone.
Well ducked 
Mee-owch!
So do you get like 0.01$ each time someone uses www. on a browser?
Yeah, as long as you have backups, it's relatively simple to restore your files after being attacked by the Cryptolocker virus.   It's a nasty, clever virus. It's just one of many reasons to always have a backup ;P
Not my script, nor my IT guy. Was a client.  That being said, it's just a case of doing `File.ReadAllLines` to load the paths into an array, regexing/splitting out whatever gunk is in there per line, then looping through and invoking `volrest` (or similar) for each file.
Old Peculier* mate
What do you think of the potential for sentient chatbots like cleverbot? 
[For porn!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BJ0sZqO9EEQ)
How does it feel to take credit for something the great Al Gore created?
You usually get what you pay for. 
but more importantly, the cat blogs... I bet cat blogs put a smile on TBL's face.
How can we fix the broken link problem? It's really frustrating when an old link goes to a dead place or entirely wrong place !
Your surgeon could learn about computers/networks/advanced shit instead of (say) handwriting which is now pretty useless.  That way he may be able to advance the subject of surgery with a full understanding of how IT can be a part of that.  And doctors can't write for shit anyway..
Hey Tim,  What's this HTTP/2 all about? [This guy seems to not think too much of it](http://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=2716278)  Thanks!
Why did you end this amazing AMA so soon? Too young man, way too young.
TIL  Thanks!
&gt;  full-stack software engineer  Give me a break. 
[deleted]
    Can it really be that simple?  EDIT: wow
It's a joke
&gt; Bob Kahn and Vint Cerf, who invented the TCP/IP protocol, said this about Al Gore, "As the two people who designed the basic architecture and the core protocols that make the Internet work, we would like to acknowledge VP Gore's contributions as a Congressman, Senator and as Vice President. No other elected official, to our knowledge, has made a greater contribution over a longer period of time."  -- very cool
[deleted]
Wasn't the original point of the internet that it was impossible to bring the whole thing down??
What other protocols?
[deleted]
Hey?
     Testing 123  BOW CHICKA WOW WOWWW
[edit: I should say, this is just for the "client cert" part of his response - sorry! For some reason I didn't consider that Tim's response was made up of multiple parts.]  Currently, when you connect to an HTTPS website, the website sends you a 'certificate' that tells your browser a few useful things:  * The hostnames that the certificate is valid for * Who issued the certificate (and the certificate they used to do so, going all the way back to a "root certificate") * The server's public key * The range of dates the certificate is valid for  ...and a bunch of other things. A browser can use this information to verify that the website you're talking to is who it says it is, and to make sure that the root certificate that it was ultimately descended from is one within its pre-stored list of trusted root certificates. Once the certificate has been verified, a little padlock icon appears in your address bar and you know for certain that the site displayed in the address bar is the one you're actually talking to right now.  However, the server has no idea who *you* are. The only certificates being used in this conversation are that of the server and the entity who issued the server certificate (and the entity who issued that one, etc). The server doesn't know that your browser (which might be currently pulling down a JPEG, say) is the same one it was talking to a second ago when it requested the page where that JPEG was linked.  If you used a client certificate in such a conversation, the server would get back from your browser the same details about *your* certificate as your browser would get about the *server's* certificate. That means that the server would be able to identify you, which could be used, for example, instead of a username/password. This would make the login process much more secure, because the only way somebody could log in as you would be to have your certificate.  Client certificates are normally paired with things like a smartcard reader, and the certificate is stored on the smartcard. Thus, when you access a website that is set up to use client certificates, you will normally need to have an issued smartcard inserted into a reader connected to your computer. You could theoretically have a client certificate directly installed into the browser, but using a smartcard has a few advantages - among other things, they're portable and if someone were to steal your computer, they wouldn't be able to identify as you without the smartcard.  Client certificates are not normally common when using HTTPS at the moment. They're used extensively by the government and military because of their much enhanced security, and may be used by some corporations, but they're not normally seen on public websites. Instead, sites that want enhanced security normally go for two-factor authentication using your mobile phone, as most people have mobiles (whereas hardly anybody will have a card reader). Two-factor authentication works by asking for something you *know* (like your password) and something you *have* (like your phone, which might hold a shared secret that it can generate codes from). If you've ever used Google Authenticator (or another app like it) to log into a site after entering your password, then you've seen two-factor authentication in action.  Does that help explain things?
I know this will get buried like last time (has it really been a year already?) But I'll post it anyway. Sir Berners-Lee, you are my hero, and in my opinion one of the greatest heroes of humanity. Your selflessness in allowing the Web to grow by giving it away has unlocked one of the greatest revolutions in the human condition. I thank you from the bottom of my heart, and the bottom of my hard drive.  P.S. your appearance at the 2012 Olympics opening ceremony made me tear up. It was truly inspiring. 
He wasn't talking about heart surgeons learning about networking at university, obviously.  Pretty sure he was talking about learning more about it way before then.
What are your thoughts on the Internet of Things?
Thank you for that explanation, I've never heard it put so clearly.
I think the idea is that you area already being "compensated" by being granted free use of their services such as search and gmail.
[deleted]
    Wow. Four spaces? Who knew? That guy, obviously.
Oh I'm not arguing that. Weighing in on net neutrality CERTAINLY requires expertise. However, I do think everyone should have enough understanding of the world around them to know when some "expert" is bullshitting them, the way so many people (namely ISPs) are doing with net neutrality.  Most people recognize that it's important to know enough about math to know when you're cashier isn't giving you enough change, or to know enough about the law to know when you're allowed to say no to the cop who is pressuring you to incriminate yourself. Why should tech be different?
I used to think this too, but it's actually dead simple. [BackBlaze](https://www.backblaze.com/) is cheap and ridiculously simple to set up for doing off-site backups. Yeah, it munches your bandwidth a bit, but it QoS'es pretty well and unless you're on a capped line it's totally worth it.  If you want a local backup solution, Windows Backup works pretty well too. Just get an external disk and go through the wizard to set it up. You can even run FDE with BitLocker at the same time and it'll work seamlessly.
    Let me try...this is fucking cool!
[deleted]
HTTP was used for years in other types of networks like a BBS. The Macintosh came with a hypertext reader for free. He just made his own format over the Internet, and he's famous, because we don't use a BBS anymore. I used BBSs, and the Internet before web pages were popular. The most popular protocol over the Internet at the time before the WWW, was the hypertext protocol [Gopher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gopher_%28protocol%29) which worked more like an FTP directory system. The WWW was just easier to use and was more like a presentation format.
&gt;new version of Crypto Wall   &gt;went to work on their entire SAN   &gt;(new sig in the latest definitions)   &gt;he wrote a powershell script   &gt;previous shadow copies   &gt;heuristics on the SAN  Imagine saying what you said to someone from the 1950s 
Or you set up a media priority type for video or audio. I forgot what this is called since my network days but both have higher priority over the network than text documents. In this situation maybe they could add medical data type to the protocol to give it an even higher priority. 
I'm kinda new to XKCD. What's the alt text? 
Dude, whoa
    AYY LMAO
This was 3.0 (the latest) and it didn't delete the shadows. That being said, it might've been because the infected user didn't have access to shadow copies via the mapped volume.
We're witnessing the birth of a very complex technology though. Computers possibly didn't even exist when your professor was going through high school and maybe even through his secondary education depending on how old he is. Kids are now starting to grow up with these things ingrained in their day to day lives and this sort of basic technological illiteracy will soon fizzle out.
    Can I do it too?
It's the eternal September all over again.
It took me 30 *faps* to get it to show the image.  I'm on a horse.
How do you see automation and robotics affecting the workforce in the future? People such as Bill Gates, Stephen Hawking, and Elon Musk warn people about the potential threat AI has if it is not developed correctly. Any thoughts on this?
Backup and TEST them. 
Saying it to someone from the late 70s would be much more interesting, in my opinion. Someone from the 50s would likely consider it jibberish, whereas someone from the 70s would more likely have a frame of reference to consider how impressive it is that we can do those things.
Pople here still can't tell the difference between internet and www?
But cats are *not* non-internet things tho
First, a couple of terms. **HTTP** is the way that your Web browser asks for and receives Web pages from other computers on the Internet (Web servers). You could think of it like a postal service. **TLS** (also called SSL) is an encryption system. It's often used with HTTP (a system called HTTPS). To understand this answer, you'll need to know a bit about how TLS works.  Think of encryption as a lockable box. The simplest form of encryption is **symmetric**: that is, the same key that locks the box can also unlock it. That's fine for some uses, but imagine sending it in the mail (HTTP); you've got to get the key to the recipient too, and if they're on the other side of the world, that's not easy. You can't send the key in the mail too, because then anyone who can intercept the box can also get the key.  For this reason, TLS uses **asymmetric** encryption. To continue our analogy, this is a box with two different keys. If you lock the box with one key, it can *only* be opened with the other key. On the Internet, a website such as a bank gives out copies of one key, to anyone who asks. This is called the "public" key. It keeps the other, "private", key very secret. When you want to send something to your bank, you lock the box with your copy of the public key. If someone intercepts it in the mail, they might have the public key too, but that doesn't matter; only the bank's private key will open the box now.  This means that you don't have to give someone a key in person before you can communicate securely with them, but there's a way to break the system: the "**man in the middle**" attack. When your bank sends you their public key, someone (let's call them Malcom) intercepts it and replaces it with their own (for which they have the corresponding private key). You think that it's the bank's, and lock the box with it. Malcom intercepts the box and can unlock it, because you used his public key. He can look in the box, before locking it again with the bank's public key and sending it on. Neither you nor the bank can know what's happened.  Now we get to the crux. To prevent "man in the middle" attacks, we have **certificates**. These are documents from trusted organisations which say something like, "We, Trustworthy Inc., certify that this public key belongs to ACME Banking Corporation." (For simplicity, I won't go into how we can verify the certificate here, but I can if anyone's interested.) These trusted organisations are called **Certificate Authorities** (CAs), and they make up the **Public Key Infrastructure** (the **PKI** Sir Tim mentions). **If** you trust a CA, you can trust any public key that comes through the mail with one of their certificates attached.  And there's the rub. If a CA is untrustworthy, they might sign a key belonging to a fraudster, or a spy agency. [Two years ago a Turkish CA was signing just about anything if you paid them](http://googleonlinesecurity.blogspot.co.uk/2013/01/enhancing-digital-certificate-security.html), and after the Snowdon revelations, it seems reasonable to assume that US CAs have been forced to cooperate with the NSA. What Sir Tim is saying, if I understand correctly, is that we should be able to make our own CAs, for communicating within a family, for example. This would mean that, so long as the family kept their CA's secret (the "root certificate") safe, no-one could intercept their traffic. This is especially relevant now that we have smart devices (part of the "**Internet of Things**" or **IoT**) collecting sensitive data in the home. A lot of IoT devices send the data off to the company's server instead of processing it within the home.  GPG and SSH are other asymmetric encryption systems, which use different keys and certificates to TLS.  Hope this helps. 
I love you.
The first time you watched porn on the web... did you know instantly that you had made the world a better place, or did it take the advent of streaming videos for it to sink in?  How long did you cry tears of joy?
I think most kids grow up with enough tech around them to know the basics. Also the are introductions to computers done in most, if not all, high schools. It seems to me like those who lack basic understanding of how IT works are the boomers, and they're on their way out anyways... 
[deleted]
I misstated that.  Technically, the first part of a URL is the schema, and it generally corresponds to a protocol, so we call it protocol by habit.  Several schemas that I know of do not require a hostname, including "magnet:", "file:" and "chrome:"
The problem is: higher speed is relative. You need to get your money's worth. Won't you be pissed if you paid for medical grade plastic, only get normal grade while those who pay less gets shitty grade? After which your supplier will create a super medical grade(which is the old medical grade) for which you'd have to pay extra premium. It will then be downgraded to normal grade because hey, no one's stopping them.
Is as if you would had asked the people from 1989 what kind of libraries they would had liked to have in 2015 (25 years from then) 
Just a joke. My dad told me a bout a fellow who was iirc The Lord of scoon but just went by scoon, which is a bit funny
We don't expect a heart surgeon to have a rational philosophy about economics, but we ask the average voter to have a rational view about law?   The problem with specialization is that at a governance level, we ask people *not* to specialize and everyone to have an opinion.  And heck, it's precisely what we ask of our politicians - to be able to understand a wide swath of issues without merely reducing them to sound bites, and perhaps why we're so often dissatisfied with our representatives. 
Basically the same URI design as newsgroups and SNMP namespaces.
What's the difference between the World Wide Web, and the Internet?
    I wanna try
Yea, that uses 0.01% of the CPU power.
But you can't deny that computers are quickly becoming a larger part of daily life for *everyone.* Especially with the huge rise of smartphones which, let's face it, are just pocket computers now. To use your mechanics analogy, you're right, not everyone should know how to replace a camshaft, but do we not expect everyone to at least be able to put on a spare tire or check the oil? In a similar fashion I think it prudent to teach the general populace some of the more basic aspects of computer science like how to check connectivity, set up a router etc. 
Tanglefoot is my favourite from the Badgers, they do some excellent stuff
My bad - I'm more of a cider drinker myself
Al Gore here.   DO NOT LISTEN TO SIR TIMMY BERNERS-LEE! You wouldn't download a Hummer, would you?  The internet is the only thing between us and having to fight polar bears in our back yard. *Imagine what a cold, frozen wasteland of a planet this would be if the internet didn't protect us from Global Cooling.* IT MUST BE DESTROYED.  **TIN FOIL HATS AMPLIFY BRAIN-SCANNING WAVES. THE GOVERNMENT WANTS YOU TO WEAR THEM.** 
[deleted]
To be fair this was a huge company with a dedicated security team and a respectable budget.
I saw a TED talk where the guy talks about how being to blur the lines between the interaction between digital information moulding and reality. His idea is the use of projection, he claims this makes it more human. The question is what is human, is it how we live now or how we would like to live? I heard about someone (i think google) sending blimps into the sky where people could not get wifi in impoverished countries and supplying computers to help with learning. This is a human thing to do. 
    I don't think you're ignoring it right
Hover over the picture for a caption sort of thing. 
He didn't invent HTTP.
Hover the cursor over the image, or, if you're on mobile, add **m.** to the front of the link and click the image.
[deleted]
I'd definitely lurk more. There's enough censorship on /r/worldnews every day that makes the NSA look like pussies. Posts reaching 2, 3, even 4k+ karma getting deleted without message from the mods.
[deleted]
    Woaaa dude
He couldn't remember that, because he didn't invent HTTP.  
Twist: drewisbrat is 12 years old
Is it?
He's also been on reddit nearly twice as long as you have, if that counts for anything.
[deleted]
My favourite of the Badger ales.  Good choice Sir Tim. 
&gt; We have had a whole campaign webwewant.org to ask people what sort for a web they want for the next 25 years.  -- great idea.
    Dammit
    Anyone with RES can just click source under your comment to see how it was done.
    i guess so
Tim, was initial reaction to the WWW as glorious as we would think?
[deleted]
Was Mindy Kaling your children's babysitter? Her book implies that she was and i Need To Know
[deleted]
As a Melbournite (Aus), that sounds funny because the Westgate is a freeway here.
In March 1999 he said:  &gt;During my service in the United States Congress, I took the initiative in creating the Internet. I took the initiative in moving forward a whole range of initiatives that have proven to be important to our country's economic growth and environmental protection, improvements in our educational system.  In the Election of 2000, it became popular among Republicans to derisively speak of Al Gore claiming to invent the Internet.  This was particularly popular among commentators on the relatively young Fox News Channel.
I do internal IT for a broadcasting company in central Indiana, do you know how many calls I get because mice aren't plugged in or their email doesn't pop up as soon as they log in to their computer?   *Far too many.* 
first server is different to what computer he devloped it on which ran a server while testing. this is the first server not run on the local host basically.
[deleted]
&gt; to start doing this.      huh
*Cringe*
I did not know about m. 
[deleted]
So then no priority for emergency/medical devices?  What about when a network is saturated?  Networks aren't designed for everyone to use their full bandwidth at the same time.  I doubt even Google Fiber would operate without slowdowns if every user downloaded at 1Gbps at the same time.  So either there has to be a legal requirement that a network can handle everyone's full capacity at any given time, we have to accept that in the event of network saturation something like a heart monitor will have decreased service just like every other device, or we have to give some things higher priorities.  You seem to be suggesting option two, no interference in any manner.  I would favor exceptions for certain devices kind of like how an ambulance gets priority over other traffic on a road.  These exceptions would be rare, regulated, and probably limited to emergency and medical services.  Edit: To anyone who wants to downvote I'm just playing the devil's advocate.  I fully support net neutrality but think it's important to understand any potential opposition arguments to effectively argue in favor of neutrality.
Project Tox, for example, is like Skype, but with encryption, privacy, and decentralization built in from the ground up, BUT -- unlike PGP or anything, it is totally transparent to the end user. It is designed to be both utterly secure and usable by the lay person. :)
[deleted]
You look exactly like my IT teacher on older photos. Are you future him?
In Edinburgh? :-)
[deleted]
     Test lmao
Every comment professor Tim makes must get gold! He should have infinity internet points!!
It is, and judging by your appalling karma, I doubt you'd know...  Besides does it look like a serious question to you?
[.](http://m.youtube.com/watch?v=LlhKZaQk860)
I love this comment. This should put so many people reading this to shame.
    thank you
[deleted]
I don't see him saying anything to that question. It'll be "The inventor of the internet endorses browser x" on tech sites the next day, he may not want that.
[deleted]
    what.
Hit by a cryptowall attack.  WHERE IS YOUR GOD NOW.
    But what purpose does it serve?
What are your current opinions of Bitcoin now that NYSE has started investing in it and that Fidelity and TD Ameritrade are starting to trade BTC ETFs as GBTC, do you think cryptocurrency will have a significant impact on the Internet in years to come? 
this dank meme made me sad knowing it's true );
[deleted]
Nope. It's almost unique among English honourifics in this sense. The only other one I can think of that works on first name is HRH.
I saw you speak on a panel in Geneva about Internet as a human right a few years ago. Do you think we've made any progress here on a global scale?
Using the power of the internet!
    Hey thanks. It works! Never knew.
Old Peculiest
Would you trust a company like Facebook to run any kind of service on your computer locally? I would not.
Gah! That stuff is like condensed swamp water.   Which is what I said repeatedly as I drank lots of it. Worst hangover I ever had.
`I wonder what happens if I do it this way.`
[deleted]
no
same here... let me know if you can get it.. :) 
It'd be even easier in Python. ;)
\\_()_/
Big Bewb Servers.
[deleted]
Also dank memes. 
This makes you cry? Or, you joke about this making you cry? Either way, you really need to get out more.
Application whitelisting on endpoints would have prevented this. 
\\_()_/
nah
The network shouldn't become "saturated". If you pay for 1Gbps, you should get 1Gbps. Even if ISPs try to convince you otherwise.
[deleted]
You already do.
    such format
[deleted]
How on Earth does it do anything to a SAN? Interact with a management console or switch without a password? Its not getting into the fabric from a desktop.  
http://i.imgur.com/SXuzFLo.jpg
Yeah, tell me about it. And these aren't all old people I'm getting these calls from, I'm getting these calls from all demographics. Gen x'ers, millennials, baby boomers, it's not an age specific problem. 
Somehow that worked on the first try. Thanks :)
I'm on mobile.  What's the alt text?
&gt; Several schemas that I know of do not require a hostname, including "magnet:", "file:" and "chrome:"  Okay, so tautologically URLs that *don't address hosts* don't embed hostnames. No duh. HTTP *does* address hosts, so it *does* have to embed hostnames - not just in its URL, but in its requests, as the "Host" header (required as of HTTP/1.1).  Anyway, that's far and away from my point, which is that every use of domain names to address hosts I've ever seen, since the inception of DNS, has used the dotted right-to-left hierarchy, which is why it's surprising to see Tim Berners-Lee suggest he considered a different syntax for HTTP - it would have been a massive flouting of convention.
[deleted]
Hi Sir Tim (can we call you Timmy?)   Do you play any video games?   On a scale of 1 - 10 how british dank are you?
I'd like to think that you're right, I really would, but having worked IT in a high school, I can tell you that there are FAR more young people who have no comprehension of what their computer is or how it works than you might think. Yes, they know how to turn it on. Yes, they know how to access their favourite sites. Their lack of understanding is fundamentally different than those of the older generation, but these are still people who, if the icon for their favourite game disappears off the desktop, can't even navigate their own start menu well enough to find it again.   Too many young people lack even a basic understanding of the technology they use. I don't even want to talk about the number of people who have come to me looking for tech support because they didn't realize there was a difference between using wifi and LTE data on their phones. I'm not asking that they know what LTE is, or how it's different from 3G. But is it really so insane to expect that they know the difference between wifi and data? Or that Netflix does, in fact, use the internet, even when you're not using it on a computer? Or that putting something in your recycling bin won't somehow magically store in on your hard-drive without it taking up space (and that it will, in fact, disappear if you leave it in there too long)?
    I will do this too.
    yooo
That's only (partially) true if you ignore the fact that you'd have to get a change request approved for installing Python on a box inside the SAN, which could take days. Powershell is pre-installed and ready to go.  Powershell is actually dead simple once you get how it works. The syntax is batshit, but once you're past that you get the entire .NET Framework at your fingertips.
Yeah, we fought two wars so that we wouldn't have to put up with this archaic, arbitrary and divisive nonsense. He's Tim, or Mr. Berners-Lee.
[deleted]
You weren't the sole inventor you fucking retard.  Why are you not including the names of the college students, professors and government agencies who funded it?  Lying piece of shit. 
If you could go back in time, would you have done anything differently?
BUTT YOU DONT WANT 2 BEE RECOGNIZED?? mmmmm!! Tet, YOUR WWW &amp; talks  (above threads) say YOU PERSONALLY  know about ppl SEX LIVES, HOW THEY LIVE, what they eat, how they Sleep etc? Mmmmm. Sir Tim likes 2,Watch, yet doesn't  want 2 bee watched.  We/US bet Cann described u 2 A TEE$$
Did you ever feel guilty because the internet caused several troubles in the world?
You could ask people what they love most, almost none of them would answer "humans".
So would you support the option I mentioned, that there has to be a legal requirement that a network can handle everyone's full capacity at any given time?  Because I don't think ISP's will build that kind of capacity just to be nice.
What's your opinion on tor?
    mmm hmmm
What was your inspiration to actually create the internet?
God bless your soul
    No! It is the bad kind of puppy.
    much blackness
Oh any badgers are brilliant brews. My fave is from my local, called fursty ferret... Mmm interweb and ales 
    much black
Do you think you can create a robot human like compared to the ones in Interstellar?
More than any other politician by a big margin.
Yes, it was never made up, it's 100% true, and all of Gore's quotes on it ("I was instrumental in drafting legislation that led to the creation of the internet" or something along those lines) are wholly accurate.  People make jokes, but the people making jokes are the dumb ones.
    Why is this a thing
magnet: absolutely does use hosts.  (A peer is a host, and a swarm is a distributed host.)  It just doesn't require you to specify the host (though it can.)  file: can also use hosts, though again, it doesn't write them in the usual form, if at all.  The file system may include remote folders.
What do you love the most about the world wide web?
No. Without saying much about their setup, it's basically a storage cluster for their PXE volumes and user profiles. It exposes a whole bunch of file shares for their general documents and the like. What I mean is it went after the file shares, which were exposed from a volume on the SAN.  I wasn't really expecting anyone to care enough to warrant such specificity.
How are you, Sir/Professor Tim?  /u/timbl Thanks for creating a whole new industry that I love to work in.
That's a laudable use of your cake-day karma.
 #thankstim
Oh wow! I was there a few years ago. Maybe I saw it. Also, Hawking loves that museum.
/r/sysadmin like a boss!
"GET seems to work. So now let me GET back to work."
    holy crap
[deleted]
&gt; Me ... have grown up
[deleted]
Dear Sir Berners-Lee, lverybody seems to focus on government surveillance, but personally I believe that the private sector is an equally important threat. Do you agree, why, and how to we fight this particular battle?
He also never claimed to have made it up. His only claims were reflective of his actual achievements. 
Literally Hitler
While this is true in theory, in practice it can be total ballache if you want to manage any kind of third party application updates. Plus, in my experience, there's always a load of user resistance toward SRP.  Also, it looks like (at least from the analysis I've read) the latest version of CryptoWall is processless, in that it drops a staging payload in the initial exploit which then injects its main payload into `svchost.exe` - the only things that hit the disk are a batch file for persistence and a log file to track what's been encrypted.
searching for pr0n before there were search engines was really tough
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Did you know that in [some pictures](http://cdni.wired.co.uk/1920x1280/s_v/tim-berners-lee.jpg) you look like a mix between Kevin Spacey and Vladimir Putin?
    Such wow
how does it feel to know that you are technically talking with your children on this ama?
That's the most frightening milestone for me. I personally don't want it to ever arrive.
    Why does it matter? Happy coding!
http://www.internet2.edu/ 
Thoughts on the deep web?
I don't think you understand what HTTP is.
Exactly
[deleted]
I guess I can kind of see how this would have worked and what the advantage would have been (you can split any level of resource across hosts at any time), but I feel like it would have made app routing a *nightmare* if every asset route had to have a corresponding DNS rule. (Though, hey, you just would have had to specify your traditional server as a wildcard rule, which isn't so hard, so hm.)  And hey, if you want this kind of design, you're still free to set up your infrastructure as http://cpapd98.i_am_sir_tim_bernerslee_inventor_of_the_web_join.2ykyht.comments.IAmA.r.www.reddit.com/ - except for the way you'll probably hit size limits in existing DNS resolution routines quickly (don't the RFCs specify that hostnames can't be longer than 256 chars or something? not to mention exploding caches).
Are you as grateful to our glorious political and government leaders as Reddit, for their divine intervention in saving the Internets from the evil corporations?  
About 20 years ago there was a ISO working group trying to come up with a URN(?) spec where the domain was something an end-user would never have to see, instead the'd see something a lot more human-friendly like the old AOL keywords.  I think they're still working on it.
Haha I'm not a fan of it myself, I just thought the name fit in well with this thread. I prefer cider myself - give me a pint of Thatcher's Gold any day of the week!
    All your base are belong to us
You see how the Republican smear machine works?  Al Gore never claimed to have invented it; he said that he "took the initiative" in helping create it, which was absolutely true: he sponsored legislation, lobbied for high speed telecommunications infrastructure, and was instrumental in providing the government support it needed to get off the ground.  His GOP political opponents couldn't stand for him to have an accomplishment like that make them look bad by comparison, so they embellished what he said into having claimed to have "invented" it, and began to mock and ridicule him _for something he never said_.  So one of his greatest accomplishments in office is now seen as a joke and stain on his character and truthfulness, when in fact the people attacking him for it are the ones being untruthful.  Bam! You're in the All Spin Zone!
Marsh Lord
    trip out
Lots of "techs" and managers like to use SAN as a buzzword for any NAS over 4-5TB to pump up how "awesome" it is, or just dont know any better.
Yes it is. Here's a picture I took of it this January :D  https://i.imgur.com/IwQHSG8.jpg
I'm extremely technologically literate but I don't know much about these "dedicated routes that go over the internet but aren't really the internet" or whatever they are.  Would you care to explain them or link to somewhere that does?
    woah wtf is this shit
Huh?
[deleted]
Where is your question mark?
The HTTP protocol and HTML language were successful because they were dead simple.  Clean simplicity is hard to achieve, but when you get it right you can have something wildly successful.  The smaller the spec, the less room there is for two different people to interpret it differently causing breakage. 
What are your opinions on the transhumanist movement?
&gt;people's understanding of how traffic is delegated is so fundamentaly flawed  Can you provide some sites that describe this traffic delegation and alternate routes you are describing?  I'd like to learn more.
That burn is too hot to touch!
why would you be sad to browse dank memes?
I COULD OF BECOME WORLD FAMOUS BY NOW YOUR INVENTION RUINED MY LIFE! Anyways thanks!
Never heard of playing games online? VoIP? Networked printers? POP3/IMAP email? FTP? Bitcoin All of these things use the Internet, but don't necessarily require the Web. 
I swear JRR Tolkien wrote that in a book somewhere... 
Same thing happened to a client of mine, torrentlocker variant virus. Unfortunately her backup was over capacity and her old IT guy wasn't keeping watch.we got most stuff back but there were a few still missing. Our government provides decryption keys for cryptolocker, but not this variant.  It was sent in an "fine notice" email which looked legit apart from the email address and the fact that it had a .zip attachment.  Well, needless to say, they will never open a zip or exe from email ever again.
    huh?
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_hypertext
&gt; ( ,  ,)  F(   )Y
First of all let me just take the time to thank-you for your contribution to humanity, the creation of the internet is one of the most groundbreaking creations in recent history, akin to the invention of the wheel.  Now my question; How would/do you feel when people say you are as important to society and science as the prominent names in science such as Thomas Edison and Alexander Fleming?  Once again, thank-you from your contribution to humanity.
Maybe you confuse HTML with HTTP?
*Whoa*
Well they were lucky - why does the PA have write permissions for the entire company data on the SAN?
yea this is an example of platform agnostic resource reservation, which is actually good and essential for everyday operations.  this is why I don't really like the "no fast lane" bandwagon. while it's well intended, this is counterproductive and just further confuses people on how the internet really works.  fast lanes are good, fast lanes have been an essential part of the internet since its inception. we actually want fast lanes for the relevant protocols to have reliable transmission, as long as they don't discriminate or interfere with certain platforms for monetary gain.  so what certain telcos actually want to do is turn a necessary tool into yet another revenue stream, with ulterior motives that have nothing to do with quality of service, this breaks the internet
Do you think that all data should be encrypted when travelling across the internet? I find it mind boggling that my self signed certificate makes my website safer, but also more frightening and less usable. It seems like certificates were invented to verify websites and allowing secure connections is just that *other thing* it does.
What separates you from all the others who "invented" the web ?
[deleted]
Web 4.0 = The Matrix 
A fellow Bathonian? Surprising
I had to learn your name for a university course for librarians :)   as a librarian, i have to ask about censorship. do you feel the web should be censored, for example hate sites or sites that encourage self-harm? where would you draw the line?
    Is this on every sub?
Thank you for your role in making the internet free and accessible.  Do you worry about the commercialization and monopolization of technological breakthroughs that can be seen as inevitable?  How much further do you think we could be as a society without being held back by intellectual property?
I don't believe the commenter above is worried about the entire internet going down, but if it goes down locally an alternate would be useful.  So for emergency services it would be good if they can transition between a dedicated and public network as needed.
Neither of these cases address hosts by domain name, though, which is why this is irrelevant to a point about *domain name address syntax*. (Meanwhile, most magnet links *do* address *trackers* by domain name, *with the RTL-dot-separated syntax*.)
Shadow copies also do not exist if windows' 'system restore' is disabled. 
[deleted]
At the bare minimum, use Firefox with Adblock Plus, Ghostery, and HTTPS Everywhere. And don't forget to go into the browser's settings and disable third party cookies. 
add on there /r/proofofconsensus
What's your opinion of the wave of self-conscious "retro" art styled after the aesthetics of the early 1990s internet? 
[Professor Tim](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kqSizsjbln8)
     test
What actual uses would a user have for their own data.. realistically? I can't really imagine many scenarios where I'd want/need to be constantly evaluating it? This is not to say I wouldn't rather be have it be user-controlled, just wondering what users would be doing with that control. 
Ah. Well, these guys were definitely using the term in the correct sense. I don't know exactly how big their SAN was, and again I don't want to give too much away, but they had sufficient space to archive hundreds of real-time video feeds going back a month, plus have daily backups of 300GB+ databases, and enough to have separate PXE boot images for over a thousand employees.
Are you happy that Reddit is the front page of the internet? 
What excites you the most about the direction of the Internet?  What is most disappointing?
[deleted]
Why do you think you're not as famous as say.. Steve Jobs, Bill Gates etc..? Most people I know wouldn't know who you are =/ 
Epic username my friend!
Do you get discount on shopping sites?
Does the internet we use today fulfil the idea of Memex?
[deleted]
Also this would have limited the character space unless you want to Punycode all your dots and tildes, or throw them in the querystring/fragment (and negate the whole point of deferring to DNS).  tl;dr Tim Berners-Lee made the right call.
Do you view the government and corporate internet data logging as a good or bad thing? Like guns can be good or bad depending on whose hands there in.  
[deleted]
    This is amazing!
Unfortunately the latest variant appears to be distributed via exploit packs, including a recent (in the last month) vulnerability in Office which causes code execution from a malicious document.
the wiki on [QoS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quality_of_service) is a good place to start, specifically the section on [IP and Ethernet](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quality_of_service#IP_and_Ethernet_efforts), and following the cross references from there should touch on many of the processes involved here
 #people
    Test comment. Please ignore.
    Welcome to Myspace, it might not be practical for reading, but it makes the poster feel cool.
Politics, I expect.
T'is 'Sir Tim' as opposed to Sir berners-lee
This is true, but this was a storage cluster ;]
[deleted]
fuck no. how about if you need faster internet connection for you heart monitor you turn off all your other bullshit devices slowing down YOUR connection, dont come fuckin with my internet use because you got problem foo
I would assume that would entail an extranet. [The wikipedia article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extranet) does a good job of explaining it. Essentially, it behaves just like he described; It's a dedicated connection between two entities that doesn't allow outside connection from the rest of the internet. It's largely used between businesses that share data for fast access between the two organization's servers without opening up that data to outside attacks.
Fun fact: the first transaction online was a bag of weed.
Do you ever sit and think to yourself, "wow, I invented the greatest tool and resource that mankind has ever and will maybe ever have"?   And I don't think that's an arrogant thought but one to be incredibly proud and excited about. 
    Debug.Log ("asdfasdfasdf");
    printf("Hello World!\n");
I'd love to see the base for that script, as well as a bunch of people at /r/powershell !
[deleted]
[deleted]
he never said any such thing, and you show yourself to be a COMPLETE moron if you think that he did.
[deleted]
Mobile here too. Took so many tries to get it, but I got it! Now I'm sitting here laughing so hard there's tears in my eyes. Good job right back at you!  I almost never LOL literally from posts anymore. 
[deleted]
id like to add Horizon and Bitnation to that list
Enjoy your freedom 'n' justice!
See this comment: https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2ykyht/i_am_sir_tim_bernerslee_inventor_of_the_web_join/cpar0fo
I know very well the difference between Hypertext Markup Language and Hypertext Transport Protocol. Please provide a source for your assertion that someone other than TBL/CERN invented HTTP.
[deleted]
It depends actually.  I have a directory where content from Google is hosted under /com/google, and it's perfectly reasonable that that could be an NFS mount of something from /com/google.  In that case, the file:xxx/com/google would be addressing something on google.com.  The fact is, each of these schemas is its own little namespace which doesn't owe allegiance to any other schema and follows standards to the extent that it makes sense to the designer of that schema...  And for http, that's Sir Tim.
what was your reason for inventing the www? (my wife just asked me)
Backup your shit -  on cold storage media. 
[deleted]
Yeah, or anyone non technical today 
Viewing a website via a sand boxed browser is not the same as installing an application and running it on your computer.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_hypertext  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext
http://37.media.tumblr.com/529ebe10a00840552f8ef3316c377325/tumblr_n6lgrb4XXO1sitpgeo1_500.gif
    Whaaat? This is pretty cool.
    what
[deleted]
The future is now
If you want to guarantee that everyone always has their entire bandwidth available to them at all times you need enough capacity for the (unlikely) even that everyone decides to download at full speed at the same time.  Networks aren't built like that, they're based around average usage patterns not absolute maximum usage patterns.  No ISP will build tons of extra capacity since it's almost never needed unless they're legally required to.
[deleted]
Or a guy like me in 2015.
Fancy a straightener?
Oh yeah, that's pretty smart. Least privilege maxim saves the day again! 
It's just a courtesy (you also need to learn what thw WW's were about)
[]Youreahugeidiot 66 points 3 hours ago        1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  34  35  36  37  38  39  40  41  42  43  44  45  46  47  48  49  50  51  52  53  54  55  56  57  58  59  60  61  62  63  64  65  66  67  68  69  70  71  72  73  74  75  76  77  78  79  80  81  82  83  84  85  86  87  88  89  90  91  92  93  94  95  96  97  98  99 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 107 108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 116 117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124 125 126 127 128 129 130 131 132 133 134 135 136 137 138 139 140 141 142 143 144 145 146 147 148 149 150 151 152 153 154 155 156 157 158 159 160 161 162 163 164 165 166 167 168 169 170 171 172 173 174 175 176 177 178 179 180 181 182 183 184 185 186 187 188 189 190 191 192 193 194 195 196 197 198 199 200 201 202 203 204 205 206 207 208 209 210 211 212 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 220 221 222 223 224 225 226 227 228 229 230 231 232 233 234 235 236 237 238 239 240 241 242 243 244 245 246 247 248 249 250 251 252 253 254 255 256 257 258 259 260 261 262 263 264 265 266 267 268 269 270 271 272 273 274 275 276 277 278 279 280 281 282 283 284 285 286 287 288 289 290 291 292 293 294 295 296 297 298 299 300  The flower would have also been acceptable. 
Here here!
That is so 'Indian'!  
What videos do you love most on the Internet?
People forget this:  Then the upper layers need to take care of that. Bursts of packets, TCP, a resilient application that always retries, buying a better/dedicated link, etc.   The point is all traffic is equal. Or at least should be if planned and executed correctly. What to do with and how to work around that needs to be thought of. And as soon as someone singles out one thing as "less important" at the lower layers, any distinction of important is arbitrary and can be abused.
Is there anything you wish every person knew about the internet?
No, he invented the web, not a time machine. DNS was around long before HTTP.
Have you seen ALL pages? 
    Yay, I did it!  I shall do it everywhere, but will forget tomorrow. 
as long as the scene in wrap-arounds dont end up like this:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CQlqQ3VdL4M  
Thx. I really don't like the answer, thought.
What's your opinion on Google's heavy monopoly when it comes to internet? For many people, the internet is synonymous with Google.  In less precise terms, what do you think of one corporation representing and controlling the majority of the open web, directly or indirectly?
    Test comment. Please gild.
[deleted]
He's not talking about hypertext in the generic sense, but HTTP the protocol. 
The afternet.
Haha you got told off by the inventor of the internet on the internet.
Test comment.  Am I doing this right?
Right, so you *don't* understand what HTTP is. Please stop spreading misinformation. 
Hey Tim. As a person studying technology right now, this is very excitiing. Where do you think the future of the internet lies? What more can be done?
    Did I do this right?
You sure it wasn't the BangBus?  For me it would've been the BangBus.
    woah!
On Windows I use the open-source freefilesync - if a file is open by another process it has a variety of heuristics all the way to creating a volume shadow copy of the file so it can seamlessly back up every single file - something that Windows' own backup software *doesn't* do.  On Linux I use rsync.  When used across local file systems it works similarly.  Linux doesn't have issues with not being able to read a file because it's open by another process, you can read, or even write to, the on-disk file of a running application even.  
I have no problem with the user paying for "dedicated lines", but then there should not be a hidden cost of both you and the medical service having to pay - you pay for that line once.  Counter-question: do you know of any actual, practical example of something that life-and-death needs reliable throughput and isn't as close as the next room or have its own dedicated line anyway? Seriously, the only thing I can think of is basically calling an emergency number, and even there throughput at 1 Kbps is acceptable: you can fit all critical medical data in that first second. People are slower.  Most examples of dedicated lines I know of are business applications.
    There are two types of people
The imgflip link actually works. A+.  Here is the link for the lazy https://i.imgflip.com/io4y2.jpg
I think /u/timbl want to say that it's hard to logically argue why it's "www.reddit.com" (or com.reddit.www) in the first part of the url, and then "/" at the end, instead of just using "/" to split all parts.  protocol:/country/domain[/however/the/domain/server/wants/it]
Awesome that you're doing this!! I literally just wrote a paper on Net Neutrality and mentioned you a few times.  Did you have any idea of what the internet would become? Surely you knew its potential but...
    That's it?
    Four spaces homie, check the source.
Are you proud of what it has become?
    Sharing code blocks.   Obvs.    
http://i.imgur.com/WBqlgMk.jpg
[deleted]
whats your opinion on the porn industry?
Then you get a dedicated connection for your heart rate monitor with a Committed Information Rate (CIR).  While it may travel in the same bundles of fiber to it's destination address, it *IS" treated differently, and that's what you pay for.  This is already a thing.  Since a heart rate monitor would probably have to be wireless and probably 4G, the network provider would likely never guarantee any sort of SLA on that service.  Too many uncontrollable variables in wireless networks until it reaches the nearest wired point.      Definitely easier and cheaper to use commodity internet with a promise of net neutrality.      For now.
Inventor of the hyperlink... doesn't hyperlink URLs.
Suddenly Snowden is browsing beside you,   You need encryption then you won't have to worry.   Suddenly Snowden is here to protect you,   From the evil NSA, Snowden's your friend.  
Bronze! What is wrong with wood!. Trains! what is wrong with horses! I wonder what the next big invention will be we are going to declare as useless.
Did you ever think that the internet would become the massive and dynamic thing it is today? What were your expectations for it? If you had any.
[deleted]
    Twitch has a feature like this too if you type \####
You mispelt *"porn"*
     Link checks out, well done... human. 
/r/Buttcoin 
In 2013 Google bought like 18 robot and AI companies.. Now they have so much money that they can buy almost everything.. ~180 million per day.. x 365 days ...
Implying I have any idea what's being said.
Uh, yeah, hence why I said  &gt; I thought the right-to-left dotted hierarchy had already been an established convention for a decade.
That we are willing to pay for privacy?
He's a 10th level Vice President! 
[deleted]
world wide web
This makes me genuinely sad.
    bruh
[deleted]
Westgate of all places, pah, got to go to the Bath Brew House!
Oh my god! My karma is appalling! That's why I don't get jokes, reddit invented jokes and all the funny ones are here! If only I cared about karma I would be funny!
Are you Al Gore?
[deleted]
How quaint I appear to be too.
Shadowcopy is the best thing Microsoft ever invented. 
It's not about having to put up with it, it's about respecting what it stands for in his case and choosing to address him in a polite and proper way.  You display massive amounts of cultural intolerance with your attitude.   
Well the fact of the matter is, DRM allows the protection of the rights of rights holders, which is something we *do* need to protect. Just because you *can* download something, doesn't meant you *should* have access to it.
     Holy shit it actually worked 
    Its like I've discovered a new side of myself.
Indeed
    Let me try
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wEqc-ArxAzI
Same here. Are we like gods now?
[deleted]
Can confirm. Am confused.
when can we replace our limbs with cybernetics? I figure I'll take the "humanized technology" seriously.
You misspelt "misspelt"  But yes I agree. Think back to a time of darkness where the only access to porn was via magazine or vhs. *shudder*
No. The hospital would pay for internet then they choose where it could go. The hospital would be able to give your machine better access.
Serious question - what's the difference?  I thought it was all related.
    dank meme bro
Well, wouldn't you want to know when your porn browsing history is provided your employer during a background investigation? Or that giving away certain data might result on you paying higher insurance premiums or increasing the chances of getting a higher interest rate on your mortgage?  But more likely it'll be having systems that work with the data you generate without needing to send it to third parties like LexisNexis (which, I might add, has contracts with the DHS and likely other agencies to make all the data or has collected on people free for them to search through in bulk.)  I just want to control my own tech and not worry that business will try to get me to change my personal life to generate more data for them or to have government make stronger laws and regulations for nanny-esque activities.  
    Guys plz didnt work
Oh shit yeah. Well the Westgate was just the first place that came to mind after the uni SU 
Wasn't the spider first to create the web?
Misspelled "free pr0n"
I disagree with your first part and agree with the second. I am in favour (of the ideas) of technocracy.  Its not about teaching kids everything. Its about teaching them about the world they live in, which is filled with technology.  You can go over the basics of "how the Internet works", enough to convince them why NN is important, in roughly 60 minutes to the average adult. Problem is, that adult needs to be open to learning it, which as anyone in IT can tell you, most people aren't. Even high school and college students. But kids are. Kids are curious; they want to know how and why shit works. And they're easier to teach. Perhaps if education were actually given a real priority and made to accommodate the needs of the *students*, individually and collectively, then we very well could educate them on a lot more things more quickly.  Edit: I assumed we were talking K-12, but most replies here seem to be about college. Why should we *not* be teaching Grade 1's how to use computers and how they work? Why just (effectively) adults?
    please
[deleted]
Oh wow this is sad. But sadly true. 
[Some of the other questions have somewhat addressed my concerns](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2ykyht/i_am_sir_tim_bernerslee_inventor_of_the_web_join/cpaksxr), it seems that you can have a separate dedicated network that runs on the same infrastructure but that has guaranteed/priority service.  The heart monitor is just an example I've seen thrown around.  But maybe a better example would be in a larger emergency.  Everyone trying to contact friends and family can saturate communication lines preventing important stuff from getting through.  If emergency services are operating on a different network this won't be a problem, but as [this comment suggests](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2ykyht/i_am_sir_tim_bernerslee_inventor_of_the_web_join/cpanw3p) it could be useful for emergency services to be able to use public networks if needed, and in that case I have no problem with them being given priority over my Netflix movie.
I mean that a given user/subscriber could control the priority of their own things relative to each other. In the example above, my heart monitor v.s. my step count.
Can you turn off the Internet? 
[deleted]
Yep, it's not easy to do, but it's worth it. Security is always a trade-off.   And it's getting easier as the tools get better.       My understanding is the Cryptowall dropper spawns a new explorer.exe process, so whitelisting should prevent that initial step, and huristics should also be looking for the write to the registry for "run" and "run once". Ditto for spawning the svchost.exe.     I really like attachment execution in sandboxed VM's at the gateway. It's a great way to detect zero day crap, and the tech is getting cheaper as more companies bring appliances to market.  Some vendors are producing sandbox execution systems that can generate signature file updates for anti-malware - pretty cool tech.
Its actually kind of wrong, for someone of today and that is their business.  Shadow copies aren't really used on SANs.  Windows can't write a Shadow copy remotely, and if it is a Windows box serving up the SAN then it is just technically a file server with block level access to a SAN. In that case, the logs wouldn't be local to the windows file server.  Modern SANs can put data back from last change almost immediately, so, this isn't really a big deal at all in that type of environment.   TLDR: Techie talk sounds good but is actually bullshit. 
Bloody darby.
Eternal September is, by definition, eternal. It can't happen "again".
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communications_protocol
    W. O. A. H.
Fair enough, I took "alternate network" to mean a different protocol for some reason.  Multiple ethernet connections over different media/routes would certainly be advisable (some via public internet, some via dedicated cables)
Is it true that on the Internet, nobody knows I am a dog?
[Maybe I'm a wizard...](http://i.imgur.com/gdkaI.jpg)
That is the exact same thing. Hypertext is a protocol. Tim made his own markup language for that protocol, like many people before him. Tim did not invent any protocol.
Did you ever imagine the web would grow to be this big?
    Now all of these guys too.
    Wow, this is going to be abused.
In terms of what you're giving up, if a system can be figured out to do this safely and securely, we can just give away our spare computing cycles and have businesses get paid through a BitCoin-esque pooling process.
[deleted]
DRM doesn't work though, never has never will. It is defective by design.
    You can't, the black strip just works in this subreddit
[deleted]
    ?    
Do you think there will be another big breakthrough with the internet, and if so what do you think it'll be?
What are your thoughts on the Internet of Things and the ways that it may change our lives? I'm doing my dissertation on the IoT and it's impact of society so any information would be great!
Yes. Why should we have to pay for a basic human right?
[deleted]
Yes, HTTP is a communications protocol which can be used to faciliate hypertext. TBL did not invent hypertext, but he did invent HTTP.
Sounds like proper netsec there. The only people who should be able to modify the final backup should be the one that would use it (ie a sysadmin). As a bonus that person is also less likely to get the virus. 
Ok thanks that makes sense, so like using QoS on your router to prioritize html over torrents.  At first I thought you meant external prioritizing, like prioritizing your traffic over your neighbors.
I think that the biggest changes will occur with the introduction of a *Stellarnet*, or whatever they call the interplanetary network they will use.  Just think about how fast the internet is, not by download/upload speed, but by latency. You data can travel across the planet in fractions of a second. We've gotten so used to this speed that anything above 70-ish-ms is considered *bad* for online and realtime gaming. If we attempted to connect planets together with today's internet, it would fail spectacularly. [It takes between roughly 4 minutes and 24 minutes](http://blogs.esa.int/mex/2012/08/05/time-delay-between-mars-and-earth/) for a signal from Earth to reach Mars, depending on where each planet is relative to the other as they progress in their orbits. All of the handshakes and transfers that normally take place at fractions of a second will suddenly take exponentially longer and you could end up waiting upwards of an hour for a page to load, and that's just if that page is static, it would be far longer if that page then needs to load things on top of that like style sheets, scripts and dynamic content.  What is likely to happen, is that Mars will have its own Internet and will trade data dumps with Earth which are likely to include research data, caches of website and even emails. Think of it like an RSS reader set to pull articles from a popular website every two hours. You *will* get your information, but it will arrive all at once and those events will be few and far between, at least with the standards we have internalised.  We are going to throw as much money as we can to advance data transfers across space we're an imperial species, we're not going to stop at colonising our own solar system that's if we're even around at the time where that's possible, but that's an entirely different conversation. We need faster than light communication, but with our current understanding of physics, that's not possible, not even plausible.  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  I've had to edit this many times because I was a dumbass and edited one version on my user view and then again on the actual reddit thread, meaning I added a PS and accidentally reset my comment back to its first version.  I had to edit out these parts of the comment as I couldn't find a place to fit them, but they are worth looking at.  [All of the other seven planets can fit in the distance between the Earth and the Moon](http://www.universetoday.com/115672/you-could-fit-all-the-planets-between-the-earth-and-the-moon/).  [An idea of just how vast space actually is, where the moon is only one pixel](http://joshworth.com/dev/pixelspace/pixelspace_solarsystem.html).
You can't prevent `explorer.exe` from being executed by the user, even with SRP. If you did, you wouldn't be able to launch the desktop environment from winlogon.  CryptoWall doesn't execute `svchost.exe`, but instead uses a privilege escalation bug to get up to SYSTEM, then injects into an existing service host process.
Or just install AdAway if you use Android and are comfortable with rooting.
In summary, do you want to be the plaything of corporations and businesses trying to get you to produce the right kind of numbers for the data they're gathering, or do you want to have cool toys and not worry about any of that?  Cause you will end up worrying about the former eventually if things continue down the path they're on. You won't have a choice.
Holy shit, you don't comment much.
I'm Lord Rathadin of Assholia, and I approve this message.
That computer looks... surprisingly modern. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
I'm studying networking at university and was wondering, what advice do you have for someone starting in the computer networks field? 
&gt; You'd think this sounds dire, but one of their sysadmin guys shrugged it off like it was nothing. CryptoWall keeps a log of all the file names it has encrypted, so he wrote a powershell script to go through and revert all the files to their previous shadow copies and they were back up and running after an hour. No ransom paid, all files restored.  See, the key here was the backups. Unfortunately, your average  user doesn't really do backups correctly.  
Think of it this way.   You want your new invention to be an instant success and get early adoption? Make sure it handles porn.
I don't really care. I tried to explain the concept. If you want to believe he invented the microchip, go ahead.
He did say, in words that I can only assume were an unintentional mistake, that he "took the initiative in creating the internet."  That set off all of the criticism.  The truth, as others have noted, is that he was hugely instrumental in recognizing the importance of the internet and getting legislation passed to help it grow.  Here's the snopes article about it:  http://www.snopes.com/quotes/internet.asp  The important passage:  &gt;The "Al Gore said he 'invented' the Internet" put-downs were misleading, out-of-context distortions of something he said during an interview with Wolf Blitzer on CNN's "Late Edition" program on 9 March 1999. When asked to describe what distinguished him from his challenger for the Democratic presidential nomination, Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, Gore replied (in part):  &gt;*During my service in the United States Congress, I took the initiative in creating the Internet. I took the initiative in moving forward a whole range of initiatives that have proven to be important to our country's economic growth and environmental protection, improvements in our educational system.*
[deleted]
[deleted]
Victoria may have typed that too... I mean, besides the fact that she's the one typing the whole thing.
I think DRM will work sometime in the future, we just need to find a way for it to work. I think as the generations pass and you can't even go to the bottom of the ocean without still having full bars of signal, that DRM will truly become a non-issue.
[deleted]
Does it really matter who pays for it in this situation?  Whether it's the hospital, the device manufacturer, or the end user, in any of those situations your Netflix stream or whatever is going to get degraded if the network becomes saturated, so your neighbors medical device can keep its guaranteed service.
If you are on mobile like me: "Title text: The weird sense of duty really good sysadmins have can border on the sociopathic, but it's nice to know that it stands between the forces of darkness and your cat blog's servers."
**"***Tim Berners-Lee and his team are credited with inventing the original HTTP along with HTML and the associated technology for a web server and a text-based web browser*.**"**
Do you think privacy is a luxury good?
When did you realize that you were a cognizant spider?
Are you purposefully trolling at this point? No, HTTP and "hypertext" are not the exact same thing. Read your own links to figure that out.   "Tim Berners-Lee and his team are credited with inventing the original HTTP along with HTML and the associated technology for a web server and a text-based web browser."
When did you change your name from Al Gore to Tim Berners Lee?
Eh, they'd just hear technobabble, like many people would today.  I think more interesting is considering that something like "my phone fell out of my pocket and broke, so now I don't know what time it is" would actually sound like the ravings of a lunatic to someone from the 1980s.  Edit; changed 1990s to 1980s because of facts and history and whatnot.
    me too
Yep. I recommend [BackBlaze](https://www.backblaze.com/), plus a local backup solution like Windows Backup on a external disk. Disks are cheap. Bandwidth is cheap. Don't get caught out with data loss or a disk failure.  People should also keep in mind that RAID1 (or 5/6/10) only helps against disk failure, and won't save you against ransomware or accidental deletion/corruption of files.
yup, troll. got me I guess.
Favorite pornstar?
Are you as knowledgable about the internet as most people? Or have you fallen behind in the internet race?
The 1930s?
    i want to try too
    I like spaces.
Not only that, but offsite/offline backups. I love that site to link folks to, but it fails to stress the importance of offsite backups. If your "backup" is an external drive that you keep hooked up to your machine a lot... Yea, a cryptovirus will still wreck your day as most variants these days look to external drive letters &amp; mounted network volumes *first.* Not to mention other goodies like dumping all shadow copies, deleting restore points, etc.
Android apps are packaged similarly to that.
Dank.
Could somebody please ELI5?
Do you know that you are a god?
    what
[This](https://imgur.com/8yBK6ZD) is so fucking revolutionary!!!! OMG!!!! The same shit other people have been doing all along! What a master of the Internet!
    wat...
It's possible that /u/gsuberland was doing his best to tell the story from memory.  The level of detail or exact specifics of a story don't necessarily discredit the story.  It just means that they didn't have the story written in front of them.  If /u/gsuberland did, they would have just linked it.
    lemme try
[deleted]
HTTP request followed by an HTTP response. This is what your computer sends and receives every time you load a web page, or make any HTTP request for that matter.
I'd guess the blockchain/distributed security model. 
    cool
[deleted]
Hi Tim! So since I assume you're the higher authority on these matters, is it pronounced gif or jif?
    ....
lmao
Your hypothetical doctor is not sitting at his desk reading a real time EKG readout on you and who would flip out if a packet gets lost. If you're that sick, you'd be in a hospital getting monitored in a controlled setting. A more likely scenario is that this hypothetical device would store data offline for a period of time (a day/a week) and then upload all of it when the device has a strong internet connection and the doctor would be analyzing/monitoring trends... Not real time data.
[deleted]
[deleted]
What do you think about the singularity concept? Do you think computers will soon truly outsmart humans in more than just memory?
What about The Raven? 
One thing that often gets missed in response to this question is that *this already exists.* Network traffic uses a standard called Differentiated Services to determine the prioritized flow of data. Most data is given a best-effort delivery.   That said: something that critical should never be exposed to the Internet directly. On an enclosed network, traffic can be given discriminatory permission, such as "Drop everything in queue to make room for a code blue alert." While it's nice to theorize that things like hospitals and emergency services should have prioritized traffic based on the importance of their data, the best we can do without opening the door to abuse is what's currently in place: nondiscriminatory tiered bandwidth pricing. Allowing traffic to self-identify as high priority would be too easy to hack.   The short of it is: nothing critical should ever rely solely on the internet to communicate, or be so time sensitive that packet loss costs lives. If it is, you've already failed in your design.
Powershells are those things you shoot from your mariokart right?
[deleted]
     wow             such  great                                               excellent                            fantastic
Yea. I have no idea what's going on. I didn't realize how far I've fell behind until now.
[deleted]
    ayy lmao
How is your health?
When did you change your name from "Al Gore"?
You are fapping on a horse on Reddit? _
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaand so why does everyone make fun of him for it??? because he opened his big mouth one time and made an ass of himself, like someone else here is doing 
    Does it work for me?
That was all Gore.
[deleted]
A computer at my workplace got hit with it too. Thankfully that computer did not have any mapped drives and I was able to restore everything from a backup.
[deleted]
That is awesome! Thank you! 
[www.creedthoughts.gov.www\creedthoughts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iQJGmjnc8LU)
Do you have software restriction policies in place? That can help prevent users being infected as well.
Never really thought about it, but I feel the inventor of the internet should have important sway in decision making of the future of the internet....
What was it like being Vice President of the United States?
[deleted]
    test
Ref
Yeah, someone got an email from someone they knew (business) which had a very legitimate message and attachment. (Excel document with work related title).   It attacks network mapped drives as well. If you're an IT professional and something similar with a user happens, be sure to watch the network drives. We completely turned ours off.   We caught the infection within a few hours of it and were able to save most files from a back up, that crypto crap doesn't play around.   I believe your "encrypted" files are gone, replaced with that stupid "where are my files" texts with an eerie message. So don't think to give money because you're just letting them win. (While that's common sense, end users aren't always the brightest)  Seems like a very well executed piece of malware, wish who ever makes this stuff would apply that knowledge/skill to something positive in society. 
During the Arab Spring there was a lot of talk about the internet being a major leveling platform for the powerful and the powerless. I for one was in love with the idea of a Facebook group being able to topple the Mubarak regime in Egypt. Yet if anything the ability for revolutions to start via social media (Facebook, Twitter, etc.) has either reinforced central authority or led to multi-year civil wars.   So the question is this - do you think the the internet is still a force for good in most parts of the world, a destabilizing force, or that it reinforces existing power structures?
&gt;  if you're on mobile, add m. to the front of the link and click the image.  T. I. L. 
Late to the party but here's my question:  How often to people say to you, "Impressive, O Tim!"?
[deleted]
This makes a big difference. People really don't understand.
Second year compsci student. The fuck is this. 
how does it feel to have invented the best thing ever? also did you think the internet would turn out the way it is, with porn and hacking galore?
how did he make an ass out of himself by stating the truth...?  btw- the reason that ~~everyone~~ morons make fun of him for it is because they are stupid enough to believe fox news.  but- if you want to continue making an ass out of yourself- that's definitely your prerogative.  
You're not. You're paying for an app that you are opting to use--an app that someone or several someones spent countless hours constructing.
The exact quote, in response to a question about what distinguished him from other candidates, that started the whole absurd "Al Gore is a CRAZY liar"  "During my service in the United States Congress, I took the initiative in creating the Internet. I took the initiative in moving forward a whole range of initiatives that have proven to be important to our country's economic growth and environmental protection, improvements in our educational system."  It was a bit of a clumsy answer but it was in response to a live question that was not prepared with him in advance.
Hi , I am cablelayer and without me the last 30 years the web could not get to your house ...Ask me Anything about digging in the lines?
Some of my best friends are people!
There's no reason you shouldn't pay for a program if you want to, but that doesn't have anything to do with whether or not it invades your privacy. You *shouldn't* pay for an application that invades your privacy.
Pretty much the reason I wanted to ask his opinion.
Did anyone predict that Internet porn would get so big?
[deleted]
What will it take to stop the net neutrality pricks?
    TEST
Emergency services being given priority during an emergency is fundamentally different than paid prioritization. On the public highway system, you can't pay extra to use a special lane, all the lanes are equally available to all drivers, yet we all yield the road to emergency vehicles. 
On a related note, try Linux. GPL software tends to be kind of trustworthy like that.
&gt;I think DRM will work sometime in the future  Basing that on what exactly?  DRM will truly become a non-issue when more companies stop using it.  &gt;in January 2007, EMI stopped publishing audio CDs with DRM, stating that "the costs of DRM do not measure up to the results."[[60]](http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/78008/index.html) Following EMI, Sony BMG was the last publisher to abolish DRM completely, and audio CDs containing DRM are no longer released by the four largest commercial record label companies.[[61]](http://www.businessweek.com/technology/content/jan2008/tc2008013_398775.htm)  In April 2009, all iTunes music became available completely DRM-free. They are still in business last i checked. The people who want DRM are fighting a losing battle.
For me it sounded LOTR 
HTML bloat was bad enough that compression became the standard, and binary tokenization serves the same goal and comes with more benefits.
What do you think about the government using this huge amount of data?
If you're interested, (also, I'm not an IT guy, some of the comments below give better answers)  **crypto-wall** I didn't acutally know this one but from context clues it's clearly a type of malware that tries to encrypt everything so that the files are still on your hard-drive, but unusable, and then the person that sent it holds your encryption key hostage until you pay a "ransom" so that you can unencrypt all your files and use them again.  **SAN** ~~Secure Access Network, so a network, probably for a work-place, which is "secured" and not meant to be connected directly to the internet.~~ See blind2314 comment below  **new sig in the latest definitions** AVG and other anti-virus companies send out frequent virus updates, because mean people who make viruses continue to make new ones. AVG caught the malware in question because AVG downloaded a new virus definition telling it that the version of crypto wall was malware and needed to be shut down.  **powershell script** scripts are used by IT dudes to do IT stuff; add/delete/backup files. If you have to do a similar thing to thousands of files, it sucks, but if you write a short script for it, the computer can do it for you.  **previous shadow copies** a good system-admin will do frequent back-ups that can't be deleted, and they will back up *everything* on the network. [EDIT: apparently windows does this for you and that's what's called a "shadow copy", I have been corrected in a response] The copy of the network drive is called a "shadow copy"  **heuristics on the SAN** heuristics are tools that may not tell you directly that you have a virus, but they define behavior that is probably malicious. For example, opening and closing lots of network files is probably malicious behavior, and the software should be stopped. 
[deleted]
Most of the current generations living today don't see what's wrong with it, you need to start with them.  The easiest way to win this battle is via Startups/Corporate. Get them *all* to fully encrypt every last bit of your data. Mass campaign them with everything we have to do, I don't care what it takes.  Now, the government is fucked. At this point the table flips and the question from the gov. becomes "so... what did you guys want again?".   ---  Personal opinion here. I'm not in this fight because I think the NSA wants to see *my* personal text messages or emails. It's easy for us to say "well duh I'm not a terrorist", but if you fought terrorism with that logic we'd be fucked. What I worry about is the day someone really exploits this, or it has a serious impact on freedom of speech. This is the technology we see used all the time in dystopian sci fi films, and all it takes is some crazy assholes to get us there. 
Firefox/chrome/etc. Are all accessing websites in the world wide web. Basically everything you see there is because of Tim.   Every other program that uses the Internet like email, games, chat programs, Skype, etc. Are all using the Internet, but aren't using the Web. 
You obviously aren't a programmer or understand why XML exists.
Wait a minute. Didn't Al Gore invent the Internet?
That's how I feel -___-
ELI5 Cryptowall please?
[deleted]
AFAIK, we all should use free software and decentralised services : )
Distributed via email and monetized via Bitcoin. How are they related to web?
I think DRM will work sometime in the future because there are brilliant people out there that could find a way to do it in a way that respects both the consumer, creator and publisher.  I'm not denying the fact that DRM as of now has been destructive and counter-productive but I think it's extremely foolish to say that there shouldn't be any form of protection for content rights holders.
Saving a physically damaged drive takes significantly more effort.
[Tim on Net Neutrality](http://youtu.be/k-xSP_T0VqU) 
I love how people who create NOTHING are upset that the people who create actual stuff want to "Protect" it.
The reason you can count, in this case, on the power remaining with the people is because the ignorant masses can be swayed by popular opinion. "Gee I don't know Bill-O, but you're right, them job stealin Mexicunts sure do eat a lot of welfare lobster in their internet cafes raising their anchor babies! And since internet cafes are "net neutral" liberal horseshit, lets go vote to end net neutrality! LET FREEDOM RING! WOOHOOO BY DOGGY! MURICA!"  I think it's long past time computers became a part of elementary education. I'm not saying we should get into n-dimensional data structures or network topography, but kids should be taught what an Operating System is, the difference between a Disk Space and Memory, Information Security basics such as password protection and 2-factor authentication, basic computer maintenance ("no Jimmy, that is NOT a cup holder. Use this compressed air to clean dust out of the video card, not soap and water."), how to navigate a console(as in command prompt, not playbox 180), how to write a bash script and why, design patterns (because the utility of knowledge of design patterns transcends programming - imo anyone could benefit from understanding design patterns). Typing should be taught alongside cursive and print. Grammar should include rules like YOU not U or THANKS not THX. Maths should include spreadsheets and database design. Elective elementary courses should include specific programming languages, custom peripheral building design with Arduino or Raspberry Pi, PCB Design and Basic Electronics, Web Building (combine Design and Development for the kids - if they want more they can specialize elsewhere)"  *I'll happily teach these classes all day long.*
Have you ever had to deal with any annoying people who have openly said to your face **"You didn't invent it, X/Y/Z did!"**?
    Fthv
So what does the title/prefix "sir" get you or allow you to do?
That post makes me die a little.  The Hate Al Gore invented the internet meme was spread by ignorant IT people who didn't know history, and the pubs talked it up.  That stupid ignorant meme is why we ended up killing people in the wrong country for 9/11.  Sorry, the usurping of the election system the happen after the election still pisses me off. 
[deleted]
Are there any better examples? Laypeople tend to only use the internet from a web browser. Email is the only thing I can think of that they might not do in a browser.
&gt;You can't prevent explorer.exe from being executed by the user        Of course you can. SWL software is smart enough to prevent a *second* explorer.exe from spawning.        &gt;CryptoWall doesn't execute svchost.exe           According to the Cisco Talos teardown I read, it does spawn a new svchost.exe. "Finally all the system protections (and all System volume shadow images) are disabled and the code is injected in a new spawned svchost.exe process."   http://blogs.cisco.com/security/talos/cryptowall-3-0     
[deleted]
No more silos, sounds like almost an utopia right now, everybody's on Whatsapp, Google, Facebook and these shits.
It's ransomware. It gets onto your system, encrypts all your files using a key escrow system, then sends you to a web page demanding cash (usually in Bitcoin or similar) to decrypt your files again. It has gotten quite popular recently because the returns are high and people don't back up frequently.
[deleted]
Wasn't it `rm -rf /memes`?
    Beep Boop I'm a robot
That's a good point, I'll have to rethink some of my previous arguments.
Nah, lets trash everything
This wasn't my organisation, but as discussed with someone else SRP won't protect you against CW3. The drop vector is a malicious Office document which gets code execution, which escalates privileges and stages a secondary payload that injects itself into a running `svchost.exe` process. It's all in-memory. The only things that hit the disk are a batch file for persistence and a log file listing which files were encrypted.
Yeah, this shit happened at my school literally last week. Took my IT teacher and System Admin 3 days just to stop it and save over 300 student and teachers folders. 
Do you use GNU/Linux? if so, what distro and DE?
Any recommendation for a 23 years old guy as an Internet user who wants to fight for the Net Neutrality and federation to get an open Internet?
[deleted]
[deleted]
And you guys could have had him as President. Man...
Thank you. Seriously, thank you very much for your incredible work. What's your view about Facebook/Google/Microsoft/Apple and these companies that collect our data? and what about Imgur? it's a privative centralised software. (The only way to fight data collection it's by using FLOSS).
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
WHY DO I MISS ALL OF THE FUN AMAS?????
Yea, then your country voted in Bush.   'Murica.
When will you stop doing IAMAs? Will it be when you realize that a number of people consider you an internet sellout dirtbag?
You're not paying for privacy, you're paying for the app.  The difference is that you're paying with money *instead* of paying with your privacy.
&gt;hmm GET seems to work  God, what a momentous commit comment that would have been.
[deleted]
You mean Lord yada yada yada
    Am I doing this right?
Shouldn't it say: "One does *NOT* simply ask..."?  Methinks you a word.
"TangleFEET!"
Computer? 
[deleted]
I'm pretty sure I'm using the term "SAN" correctly here. I don't want to give too much away about their setup, but it's essentially a file server cluster which exposes dynamic volumes, which are then mapped out to their databases, PXE image servers, etc.  It was doing a lot more than just serving a couple of file shares, of course. They had a few hundred live video feeds which were archived for 30+ days, iirc.
people are just nuts and need to have their asses whupped before they open their big fat bigoted mouths, motherfuckers wouldn't be threatening rape if they experienced it themselves I can guarantee that. 
Excellent.
You'd think that's the case, but it's sadly not. To far too many, computers remain an arcane aspect of society until adulthood. Parents, rather than opt to teach their kids, simply ban them from using the computer until they're "old enough to figure it out on their own." And the children sometimes do, but in many cases simply don't. It gets put in the same category as television and video games - a luxury, rather than the integral part of society it has become. My 24 year old brother has no concept of a password or email. None. He has a computer! I don't know how he functions on it, signs up for sites, because he can't remember a password to save his life. It was never something taught to him to be important, so he has no concept of why it is. InfoSec is a joke to him. It won't fizzle out in this generation or the next - how many should we wait before we start teaching kids how to function in the modern world, rather than leaving them vulnerable to the first identity thief to come along whenever they first get access to Facebook?
    I like markdown
[deleted]
I used to do tech support for a Homeland Security agency. I wish I could say it was different, but it wasn't.
&gt; Of course you can. SWL software is smart enough to prevent a second explorer.exe from spawning.  I don't think you can configure that as part of Windows SRP via group policy. You'd need a 3rd party solution, and that's a much more difficult thing to get sign-off for. So yeah, you can *probably* do it, but SRP is a pain to deploy (both technically and in terms of politics) already without needing 3rd party agent software too.  &gt; According to the Cisco Talos teardown I read, it does spawn a new svchost.exe.   Looks like you're right on that one. I missed that bit when I read the teardown.
In the context of cost, do you feel most ISP providers in the United States are scamming the general populations?  Is there a way to provide cheaper, higher quality Internet to the masses?
    wow
[deleted]
I'm sorry, but that is far too nuanced and fact based for me to understand.  I heard Al Gore claimed he single handily invented the internet, right before coronating himself as Emperor of the Moon.    That I can believe.
    I'm not getting the blackground and blue text.  :(      Oh.. I am.
&gt;but I think it's extremely foolish to say that there shouldn't be any form of protection for content rights holders.  I feel like you're confusing copyright with DRM.  &gt;[DRM restricts entirely different activities than copyright does, and serves an entirely separate function. While Copyright restricts who can distribute media, DRM restricts how users can access their media. Copyright already provides leverage against illegal distribution, meaning that the largest distribution platforms must already adhere to the demands of large publishers, studios, music labels, and software companies.](http://www.defectivebydesign.org/so_youve_got_some_questions_do_you#difference)  They are still protected by copyright law if they don't use DRM
This is an extremely helpful answer, thanks! I've never had it explained in this clear and simple manner before. It makes such sense.
    did it work?
yes, lets all send him money over his invention :D
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Do you believe that security and openness are inherently contradictory? If not, does it require a redesign of the internet? If so - which one is more valuable? (Not a tech guy, so please try to keep the answer with minimal mumbo jumbo to the extent possible)
[deleted]
[deleted]
    hello  Edit: Is this just an r/iama thing or all of reddit
Agreed, but the only viable way to make money from a free app is through ads. In order to sell ad-space effectively, developers must collect demographic data so that advertisers can target their ads to their ideal audience. If consumers were willing to pay for apps, this would not be such a rampant problem, but everyone wants everything for free. The race to the bottom that has resulted has made for some sketchy business practices. But what should we expect? In every market you get what you pay for, and apps are no exception.
So umm all the pics of umm, let's just say John Cheese would be proud... WD doesn't have those right? RIGHT?! 
    whoa
1 in 10 computers are infected with viruses each *month*?! If the norm is anything like some of my clients I would have assumed 1 in 10 per.........hour.
    Ditto. Totally gonna forget
&gt; They are still protected by copyright law if they don't use DRM  Does the fact that it's protected *"by law"* actually matter when it comes to the internet? It certainly doesn't seem to be stopping people from violating it right at this second. Now look at it from a content rights holder's perspective, it's not worth pursuing any sort of legal compensation unless you have the money to pay for it and the content is expensive enough to be worth fighting for. The legal system is failing content rights holders. [More info](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wL_Wxu6x1HU), it's over an hour long but it's honestly worth the watch.
[deleted]
I don't see where it states somebody other than Tim created HTTP.
Sorry, I've been talking about 3rd party SWL the whole time. I didn't realise you were discussing GP only. My bad :)
[deleted]
I think the big issue with the traffic control is that the connection's priority would be determined by how much was paid to the provider. If FitBit can fork over more dough than the manufacturer of your heart device, FitBit gets the boost. 
Nah just Snowin
&gt; the Malt Shovel  The only one I know of and have been to is in Northampton 
Change friend to buddy and you have a little rhyme!
I'm pretty sure you invented web markup language, but you are definately not the inventor of the Internet... why does every post proclaim you as inventor of the web, hardly any websites anymore even use web markup, it's phasing out!  how ill you feel when no one uses web markup html but instead uses things like java or other easier things in the future,,,, will you still consider yourself the inventor of the 'web'?
Don't you mean Al Gore?
[deleted]
Hi Tim! By what means do you think the internet may become a global and free entity available to all of humankind with minimal government and corporate interference?   I also want to mention my opinion with admiration that your work is the most influential invention humanity has seen so far.
Nailed it
I'll take your apology in the form of groveling please http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/fact-checker/wp/2013/11/04/a-cautionary-tale-for-politicians-al-gore-and-the-invention-of-the-internet and here is a video in case you are too much of an ass to believe the first link He says "I took the initiative in creating the internet" @ 54 seconds https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BnFJ8cHAlco
[deleted]
    LOL
P=NP not "P vs NP"
[deleted]
[deleted]
No **one** should have that much sway. Meshnets FTW.
[deleted]
because typically, they are providing you their service in exchange for the "Data". Its a trade.
[deleted]
I know I have to phrase this as a question? But I just wanted to thank you as I wouldn't have met my partner of 8 years without the internet (not a dating site, through an internet friend) and I wouldn't have a job (a webdesigner), and I wouldn't have read and seen and laughed and cried at so many things over the past 13 years I've been online - without you, so thank you so much.  I guess the question is (which is irrelevant as I just wanted to say cheers mate) is: what's your best experience been IRL, that was **only** made possible because of the internet?  But cheers mate anyway 
Some of my professors have said that if there is ONE important name to remember out of all the names we learn throughout the course, it should be Sir Tim Berners-Lee.     As a woman who is taking up Web Technology as part of my college studies, my question for you is- what do you think we can do to get girls/women more motivated to start studying/get involved with computers, technology, or the web?
[deleted]
As a sysadmin that deals with a lot of windows servers and powershell, that genuinely made me chuckle.  I'll go and annoy some fellow sysadmins with that one in the morning, if you don't mind. :)
[deleted]
Omg that's horrible!  This is why I use linux. Windows is just too much of a target, even if you are careful.
[deleted]
SAN is actually Storage Area Network. It usually consists of several specialized machines, known as storage arrays or disk arrays (simply depending on what you want to call them) , that remotely store data. That way you can have your machine, whether it be a server, laptop, or whatever, have access to this data without keeping a copy of it.   It's more complicated than that in practice, but that's a basic idea of what's going on with a SAN.
Happened to my mom. All her and her small business info was lost. We started over, and her entire documents folder is backed up to my dropbox.
[deleted]
What was it like working for Al Gore?
[deleted]
Is Time Machine sufficient to recover from a crypto attack, or will it get it too? 
    that's cool man
[deleted]
What an excellent learning opportunity for you!  M is a very useful letter. To replicate the sound that m creates, do as follows:  1. Tighten your lips together.  2. Put a slight force of air behind your closed lips.  3. Allow your vocal chords to make noise and release, opening the lips outward.  Now that you know how to use an m, I encourage you to read the rest of this co**mm**ent out loud (the two ms in comment are pronounced the same as a single m).  M has a magnificent history. The following is taken from the masterful website, Wikipedia:  &gt;The letter M is derived from the Phoenician Mem, via the Greek Mu (, ). Semitic Mem probably originally pictured water. It is thought that Semitic people working in Egypt c. 2000 BC borrowed a hieroglyph for "water" that was first used for an alveolar nasal (/n/), because of the Egyptian word for water, n-t. This same symbol became used for /m/ in Semitic, because the word for water began with that sound.  The marked origins in hieroglyphics may surprise you.   __________________________  That's all I have time to tell you about m this morning, but make it known that there is plenty more to marvel at. If you have any more questions about letters, feel free to direct them to me. 
    Cool? Wait is this working? Edit: holy mother of jesus
[deleted]
Hahaha great post!  well meme'd my friend!
have you played around with any of the web development frameworks such as ruby on rails, Django, php, any of the javascript frameworks, etc.? If so what do you think of them?
Might be a long-shot but do you remember meeting my grandfather Alph Bingham?
If you had technology that could give individuals more surveillance than the NSA, would you make it public in the hopes of self-regulatory effects or wouldn't you trust humanity with that?  
Wow this is the DARPA net dude?
Search results were "under the bed"
It is going to be an uphill battle most certainly.  Just look at some of the stuff the DEA is doing now trying to fight pot.  "Think of the bunnies!"  Now think about the guy who works at the NSA and does nothing all day except look at other people's Sexts for security reasons.  Or what I think will be more likely (to see resistance from), the people in the NSA using their power for insider trading and other monetary gains.
Americans are so fucking stupid...
He invented Al Gore.
[deleted]
Americans are so fucking stupid...
Its legal in Ireland for a bit!
...or just set up dropbox / onedrive / spideroak and never worry about backing up again
Not as dumb as the people who believe them
When will the United States actually reform their education system, so they'll stop being the laughing stock of the world?
[deleted]
When you are casually browsing the internet, do you have a feeling of pride?
[deleted]
    Test post
    HOLY SHIT
&gt; When I have enough bandwidth to bring me a scene in wrap-around HD so my eyes and ears can't tell I'm not in the other place.  And a government who doesn't censor it? 
    Are you sure that's all there is to it?
If he would have said the internet's sole purpose was to censor cuss words from children, and that terrorists were depleting the ozone layer to focus a death ray at America, he'd no doubt have been our president.
    Does this work on all subs?
Yeah, it'd be bad if all the men and women involved in Gamergate got what they actually wanted and a healthy professional code of conduct was in force in games journalism.  Oh, no, you mean the nonsense that Gamergate is composed entirely of strawmen rapists instead of real people who, as a vast majority, don't do anything wrong and in fact actively work to stamp it out? Got it. I won't interrupt your circlejerk. I know how hard actual research can be when it's much easier to just let GamerGhazi think *for* you!  Edit: Aww, did I make your bwain hurt with the widdle twuth? It'll be okay, little ones. It'll be okay. Let the adults do the talking while you do some reading on the subject outside of Kotaku.
He's only been a redittor for a week.
But what if it doesn't work?  I get the idea behind it, but they can just break your encryption.  Compel you or your encryption provider to give you the key.  Jail you for not complying to give the key.  Plus aren't they working on some magic encryption killer?  Like he said, a crypto arms race isn't going to solve much, because they have so much more resources than us.  And you can't say private corporations will balance it out, because I'm counting them as government resources in this matter because they'll just get hit with an order.
I believe you knew my grandad, Donald Davies, I wondered what it was like working with him? 
[deleted]
I don't know what most of that meant, but it sounds useful so I'm saving it.
and you could have this guy as a President instead of George W. Bush...  Good job America! 
[deleted]
Who would be Audrey 2 in this scenario? Russia?
Soylent green?
Yeah, well you know, that's just like your opinion man.
It's a song from Little Shop of Horrors. (Well, the original, not the Snowden version.)
Nice try Al Gore?
[deleted]
[Letter of the Day is M](http://youtu.be/SKoJUU_6fII)
[deleted]
    Holy shit, it worked.
M'm.
?. Eight years actually and only a little over one dozen comments.
[deleted]
    Isn't it just?
Do you wish there was some way a web document was forced to be date stamped?  I hate it when I think I'm reading a current article only to find half way through by some reference to a 'current' event that its 10 years old.  
[deleted]
That looks so wrong!
    God damn kids. Get off my lawn!
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
This is like /r/TalesFromTechSupport porn!
    &lt;--
In the UK, The Joint Academic NETwork (JANET) originally went left-to-right rather than right-to-left.  I remember when my email address changed over from xxx@uk.ac.ukc to xxx@ukc.ac.uk  (Though it was actually a bit more complex than that as the email had to be relayed through an intermediate host. Then there was also the whole /etc/hosts-&gt;DNS switchover).  (Edit: I think it actually started out as something like xxx%uk.ac.ukc.saturn@raven.ukc.ac.uk if sending from outside JANET)
    yes 
How do you that? :) 
&gt; A company I did some work for got hit by the new version of CryptoWall recently,   CryptoWall is a notoriously nasty "computer virus" that makes your files inaccessible, and demands payment in exchange for returning your files.  &gt;via someone's PA opening a dodgy Word document.   PA = Personal Assistant  Word = Microsoft Word   &gt;The malware   malware is a more general term for what you would commonly think of as a computer virus.  Any software that is malicious.    &gt;encrypted a bunch of her files (renamed them to blah.doc.ecc)   "made a bunch of her files inaccessible using a particular technique"  &gt;and then went to work on their entire SAN,   SAN = Storage Area Network, basically a shared hard drive connected to the network rather than directly to the computer.  &gt;which was accessible from the victim laptop. AV caught it 8 hours later   AV = Antivirus  &gt;(new sig in the latest definitions),   sig = signature; Antivirus works by looking for known bad files.  It does this by comparing files to short mathematical descriptions (signatures) of known bad files.  It's like checking to see if a book is a particular book by checking if a particular sentence is in that book instead of by comparing the entire book.    &gt;by which time it'd encrypted a few hundred thousand documents. &gt; &gt;You'd think this sounds dire, but one of their sysadmin guys shrugged it off like it was nothing. CryptoWall keeps a log of all the file names it has encrypted,   The virus keeps track of all the files it had made inaccessible  &gt;so he wrote a powershell script   "He wrote a simple program"  &gt;to go through and revert all the files to their previous shadow copies and they were back up and running after an hour. No ransom paid, all files restored.  "to go through and restore the files on that list from backup without paying the ransom"  &gt;They now have heuristics on the SAN to catch these operations in real-time.  They now have some kind of process that looks for this type of behavior real-time instead of just waiting for someone else to find the bad files and tell everyone.
Republicans have been shameless liars for a long time now. 
The normal ones you see are the most basic ones, simplified for public consumption. Think of each label you see between every dot (except the .edu) as a server. That server can be configured to point to another server (or website instance), hence another 'subdomain'.   The only thing limiting long domains right now is the 255 character limit and 60-ish character limit per subdomain.
Quantum computers are pretty much encryption killers. 
We have a lot of hostnames exactly this long; host001.prod.back.thing.onlinestuf.bl.aah.bla.co.uk
[deleted]
You all misspelled "misspelled"
Oh, but I do wish this answer could appear higher in this list for casual readers! Quick reversi of this idea: If the law does not protect you, use code. If the code does not protect you, use the law. RIGHTS are independent and superior to both code and laws--both are just devices that should serve our rights.
From a technical point-of-view there is nothing particularly innovative, complicated, or remarkable about the original versions of the HTML and HTTP specs. (the latter, in particular).
1010/1010
Lord Kelvin was named after a river. 
You're paying for the app with either money or privacy, not both.  That was the whole point of the comment you replied to.  Why is it sending the wrong message to the devs if you pay MONEY for an app that you could also spend privacy on?
What Operating System do you use m'lord?
I was hoping that went to a site that said, "It's EVERY day, dumbass!"
[deleted]
I guarantee you this whole thing is a heaping bucket of the Goons who cried wolf for every kernel of truth as far as how the news has reported on it.
Oh, my bad. I looked at the wrong account.
If you're using Alien Blue you can go to settings, comments and then press show link footnotes. 
I'm disappointed this hasn't been answered :&lt;
    holy shit
and did so very early.
Every other academic subject requires the use of a computer and the internet. Just signing up for classes requires an internet connection in many cases. Everyone *needs* to be able to use a computer in today's world (let alone the future), so for people to be ignorant of it in college is just ridiculous. Should people be required to learn basic programming? No, most people won't become programmers and many won't understand the mindset involved. But everyone should be able to use an office suite, troubleshoot basic common problems, and understand the very basics of communication networks.   An informed consumer base demands better products, but current consumers don't even understand the difference between bandwidth and data usage; how can they understand that data caps are a scam, or that bet neutrality is good for them? How can they begin to demand fair practices if they don't even know what fair practices *are*?
You put more effort into a comment that will probably be so deeply buried than I put into most of my research papers.  Edited A Day Later: Well damn. Might as well go eat my shoe now.
Yep, was at CERN Last Week, went into the Globe Exhibition, and there it was!  http://i.imgur.com/PNADH62.jpg   http://i.imgur.com/Of383CT.jpg
    hgt
[deleted]
[deleted]
    Dudeeeeeee
This. If you want people to invest time building to improve our lives they need an incentive/way to feed themselves. Supply and demand betches. 
no no no! let's use [LIGHTHOUSE!](https://www.vinumeris.com/lighthouse)
I also think pulling out a phone and accessing a weather app and telling them "Oh, there's a 100% chance of 3" of snow starting around 6pm, and a good chance of clear 40 degree weather tomorrow and the next day, but them temperatures are probably going to plummet after that for at least a week" would make you seem like some sort of scary prophet.
    h
[deleted]
Just remember that there's no difference between the two parties. Gore and Bush were basically the same guy!   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LKTH6f1JfX8
    SO DANK
I'm a native English speaker and I can tell you with strong certainty that /u/Grim_Bee's comment was absolute gibberish.
There's a new version of crypto called Cryptofortress that has a script to delete all shadow copies    vssadmin delete shadows /all /quiet  It can encrypt networks without network maps too. The idea of a script is great, but this further emphasizes the importance of backups! 
Found the American
This is so damn British, it makes me want to pour out my coffee for a spot of tea - and shout 'wanker!' at everyone around me.
When do you think the singularity will happen?
So...twigs.
&gt;[DRM isn't the same as copyright. Infringing copyright is just as illegal with DRM-free audio files as it is with copy protected files. This point may actually become a major headache for content companies. They've spent the last decade trying to conflate DRM with copyright. This was always misleading, but a lot of people bought it. Now that they're changing their minds and abandoning DRM, they're going to have to spend a lot of time explaining that DRM-free music is still copyrighted, and pirating it is still illegal.](https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20080303/141855416.shtml)  Copyright law is still in place without the use of DRM, the content owners have extensive legal rights over what people can and cannot do with their work.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copyright  DRM-free doesn't mean copyright-free unless it is licensed as such, say a creative commons license.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_license
There should be something like "Reddit Karma Wall" where people like Sir Tim post their Bitcoin address and everyone can donate to their foundation/consortium/retirement...   Sir Tim should be the first. 
There is a 3 year gap between two posts.  That's some serious lag.
The circle is complete. 
I didn't invent anything.  [dig.csail.mit.edu](http://dig.csail.mit.edu)
He didn't create the Internet, just the Web.
[deleted]
Are you surprised that your HTTP protocol gained such popularity?
    666
WWW is for information what Bitcoin is for financial systems.
Google fiber hurry!
Or you can do what normal people do, select the url and drag it to your "new tab" icon
VR is here now. 
Your privacy shouldn't be something to be bought and sold, and there are ways to put ads on things without tracking users.
&gt; They can just break your encryption.  Oh yea, just like that, they can break your encryption. Has SHA256 been broken yet? Or bcrypt? Ever? Last I checked no one has invented a quantum computer yet. You seem to be ill-informed about encryption. There is no "encryption provider" for open-source encryption like SHA256.
There are plenty of ways for people to make money without infringing your privacy.
[deleted]
    Am I doing it
[deleted]
[deleted]
Apparently the newest versions of cryptolocker are programmed to lay dormant for several weeks silently encrypting san/nas files without the renamed extensions. ... then finally popping its head up after several weeks or months - rendering the previous backups useless.  Unfortunately as we get smarter, so do they :(
Because you're encouraging them to continue to develop applications that infringe your privacy. Price has nothing to do with this. If you pay for the application, they will likely continue to make applications that continue to infringe your privacy. Pay for applications that **don't** infringe your privacy to send a better message.
Fred Phelps supported and campaigned for him due to his anti-gay stance at the time.
I find myself more likely to buy apps that are trial but add-free. The spammy adds everywhere give me a nasty feeling when using it - generally negative, awful experience. 
Only took me one. You must be using wp8! 
    jk
Hey, we did our part! We voted him in, but the Supreme Court and the state of Florida joined forces to basically say, "Fuck your votes - we're gonna give you George Wanker Bush instead."  Out of our hands, man... out of our hands. 
&gt; it stands between the forces of darkness and your cat blog's servers.  ...Is there any difference between the two?
    I'm sorry I needed to try it too...
[deleted]
Relevant xkcd: https://xkcd.com/1053/
    are you guys bullshitting me? all i gotta do is put 4 spaces? 
[deleted]
Technology more human... So... Cyborgs?
We're the ones proving that this isn't true. Stop selling your privacy in exchange for apps.
    cooooool. All aboard the HYPE TRAIN CHOOO CHOOO
It's not really infringing when you explicitly say "yes, you may have access to my data" before downloading an app...
Take a look at Bitcoin. It's the first step towards decentralization.
WHERE IS YOUR /r/HIGHQUALITYGIFS NOW
Al Gore bait
I'm a person from the 1980's and it doesn't sound like the ravings of a lunatic to me.
I don't think most users understand the repercussions of this, and since most of the paid applications with ads are closed source you can't really be sure what they're tracking and who they're sending it to.
[deleted]
People downvoting this: the internet is a 70's invention, while the world wide web is a 90's invention. While it may seem semantics to you, there is a big difference which is meaningful to any techie.
It serves most casual users of the WWW best to have the technical stuff at the beginning. The "[Name] dot com" they understand. Maybe even a forward slash and a path.  But, it would be even better to have it all at the end. As in, reddit.com/r/iama:/www/http  Alternatively, com.reddit/r/iama:/http/www
    Let me try
No, Where is your god now. You need to read more carefully.
Teach some undergrad classes pretty please?
[deleted]
    is this active everywhere?
^*effect
I rather like the shlurp sound as you pronounce "schlurp"! Can you go into detail about the history of schlurpz, schlurping and slitzing?   *Edit: As well as the impact it has had on society as a whole 
Don't forget about occasional glimpses on fuzzed-out cable channels. 
Bath! Only been there once around Christmas time, but got a fantastic impression. That place feels magical. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
&gt;*your* World Wide Web  FTFY, Sir Tim did not invent the Internet.
Or what about   @reddit.r.iama
Hilariously I hit the down vote arrow before managing to hit that damn link.  I did change it though :P
Go big or go home. 
Isn't that a scale of most changed &lt;--&gt; least changed?
I'm super chilled out and my eye is twitching based on all the gin and tonics i've consumed so far tonight but i assume it's some bullshit like "devotion to duty" or some shit like that because every single damn time that i deal with a sysadmin he's all "woah" and I'm all "what" and we're all asleep and shit gets crazy and i guess the point is this is a robot typing this and cheers
Bitcoin doesn't use his invention
[I made a similar comment to something like this about a month ago] (http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2vc4r2/im_irvine_welsh_author_of_trainspotting_and_im/cogbfp6)
[deleted]
&gt; Unfortunately, your average user doesn't really do backups correctly.  Which is why your sysadmin insists on saving all your work on the network drives. Even when it isn't as convenient for you. 
Stuff like this makes me really furious over the fact that he won the popular vote but not the election.
Sounds right to me.
    wow that is cool.  looks like every user on this thread will comment something about this effect
while its true the satoshi bitcoin client may not use the WWW...   how would development of the client work with out github or equivalent?  how would exchanges, tipbots and block explorers work?  how would other wallets (especially mobile) receive pricing info for convenience?  how would people easy be able to exchange addresses?
I think **children** need to learn early on to have and show total respect for all **people**. 
First try. Thank you
     Holy crap! Who Knew!
I hope I wasn't due to a political bias. Although too many questions where asked. It's normal that some went unanswered. 
     Holy crap! Who Knew!
Sure, if you're at a company with a sys admin/IT department. Most small businesses don't have sys admins, and most either don't really have any sort of IT support.  
Ah I see.   &gt;Does the fact that it's protected "by law" actually matter when it comes to the internet? It certainly doesn't seem to be stopping people from doing it right at this second.  If they want to curb things like piracy they need to improve how they offer the content.  &gt;Revenue Up, Piracy Down: Has the Music Industry Finally Turned a Corner?  &gt;[The main reason piracy is already falling out of vogue, however, has little to do with users becoming more aware of the law or fearing punishment. Forty percent of respondents to the NPD survey who decreased their illegal file-sharing said they did so because of access to legal streaming services like Pandora and Spotify,](http://business.time.com/2013/02/28/revenue-up-piracy-down-has-the-music-industry-finally-turned-a-corner/)  http://www.billboard.com/biz/articles/news/digital-and-mobile/5812288/drm-was-a-bad-move-sales-found-to-increase-10-after  When it's as easy for people to buy and use your product as it is for them to pirate it they will choose to pay.   Region restrictions, platform restrictions, inferior quality, [ridiculous pricing](http://www.amazon.com/review/R196221RQ5RA6S/ref=cm_cr_pr_perm?ie=UTF8&amp;ASIN=B00CS74YQO), all of those factors come into play.  Instead of throwing money away in search of something that can never exist, perfect DRM. Content creators should focus on removing those stupid restrictions, at least that has shown more promise than DRM ever has.  http://www.slashgear.com/netflix-piracy-rate-goes-down-when-we-arrive-03280546/ 
[deleted]
is standing beside me. He dont give me your lines,  he dont condescend.  Suddenly_Snowden is here to provide me,  Sweet understanding, Snowden's my friend. 
What's going on with the semantic web these days?
[deleted]
It is said that Betamax was better than VHS, they didn't allow porn though. "Why didn't you get Betamax, i read it was better" "well...uh..because uhm..leave me alone woman!"
[deleted]
Absolutely. I would also say have a local off site backup as well. Because depending on how much data you have and how good/bad your internet connection is, it's going to take quite a while to get that info back from a internet backup provider.   &gt;People should also keep in mind that RAID1 (or 5/6/10) only helps against disk failure, and won't save you against ransomware or accidental deletion/corruption of files.  Amen to that. Seen too many people using RAID thinking it's a replacement for backups. 
Hello, cyber security expert here. If this is true then the documents were not encrypted. If they were they would be useless unless you had the key they were encrypted with. I doubt someone with the ability to write malware capable of infecting a network like that would simply have it change file names and leave a log file with a pretty little bow on it. So either they paid the ransom and lied or it wasn't crypto wall.
    Holy crap! Who knew!
Swap phone with beeper and you're right there.
Legal requirement to handle the full capacity of every user is not necessary to guarantee speed/bandwidth. Everyone maxing out their bandwidth at the same time is not a realistic scenario. Peak usage can be modeled and accounted for quite accurately. If the ISP oversells its network anyway, and people regularly get less than what they paid for, they should be sued. If once in a blue moon 1Gbps becomes 800Mbps and 50ms ping speed becomes 200ms, no one is going to die.
I'm glad guys like you understand this all, so i can watch cat video's on these "magical" devices. Luckily i can solve most of my pc problems by turning it off and on again.
I would love to know if Sir Tim was amused, outraged or indifferent at Al Gore's attempt to grab his glory?
Shadow copy is actually a Windows thing. Windows can automatically keep previous versions of files, so you can roll back to a previous version. 
Did Al Gore really invent the Internet, or were you behind it all?
For an interesting novel that uses a Cryptowall as a kicking-off point, check out Reamde by Neal Stephenson. (Yes, Reamde, that's not a typo.)
How? 
It's hard to tell which one is checked off.. 
only took 20 years for cryptocurrency to come around and make it all possible   but really, bitcoin and all the cryptocurrencies required the proliferation of the internet in the exact order that it happened, they couldn't have existed much before 2009
I see it both ways. Of course people are going to go towards the easier option, but if Popcorn Time has taught us anything, it's that piracy can be as easy and convenient too.  It makes sense that if a rights holder wants to exercise their rights that they should be able to verify the licenses used to access their content. The downside to this is that it usually needs to be passed through a proprietary application.  I do think there needs to be DRM, but I think if it's failing, it's not necessarily a failure in DRM in of itself but rather a failure in copyright law.
[deleted]
    Does this work in all subs?
Al Gore and a series of tubes and such?
http://i.imgur.com/LnnFkHI.png
And it's usually Adobe Reader. 
Don't say that, you're derailing. /s Never mind that men and women get equal amounts of disrespect on the internet, just in the forms that the people attacking them will know they hate, it's all about the misogyny angle.
A lot of people seem to think that Al Gore claimed to have invented the internet but that was a smear/myth and he never actually said anything of the sort. He did, however, contribute hugely to the cause, more so than any other politician at the time.  
yo tim, how was appearing in the olympics?
Truth. Just look at what Katherine Harris did. How the fuck they got away with that shit.....
Sir, I have a question? Is a powershell script something a blue shell in super mario kart uses when it has a big part?   Also, where do babies come from?
    (&gt;^.^(&gt;O.o)&gt; 
[deleted]
When you created the web did you foresee all it is today with its vulnerabilities, attackers using it for destruction, etc?  Second part, how can we foresee the future of AI?
That's how you kiss people bro
It's the one with the checkmark next to it.
    Much surprise
Would it have mattered? Relevant xkcd: http://xkcd.com/1296/
I feel like you are a little bit too proud
Well this is like saying Nicolas-Joseph Cugnot didn't invent the car because the car he made is different from the one we used today
I suppose he's referring to the organisation he's working with rather than to their website.
Are you aware how many lives you've probably saved? 
I was reading this on my phone, so it was very useful.
Both spellings are correct. Yay English, you weird ass language!
    wat
    WHY
Did you spell Al Gore wrong?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Easy: An unauthorized agent locked up many important virtual documents. The attack was countered by producing unlocked copies of the affected virtual documents. They now have a sentinel watching the virtual document store for similar attacks.
[deleted]
Their company is either a hospital or a really big business (PA could either be personal assistant or physicians assistant).  So in that case, their IT is probably getting paid 6 figures per head (or at least upper 5) while yours is probably getting an hourly wage in the ~$20/hour range. And he is probably worth that.  People vastly undervalue IT simply because they don't see most of the work that IT people do. IT doesn't exist purely to help you with your e-mail or desktop icons. The other work they are burdened with is often why there is a sizeable delay between when you call them for help and when they show up, particularly if there is no dedicated desktop support staff.  Desktop support is not their job description (unless "Desktop Support Technician" is their job title, in which case they aren't actually an IT guy, they are a desktop support technician).  This is why really big companies differentiate between IT personnel and desktop support techs. The former are paid the really big bucks and do really high level stuff that is critical to your company and possibly even to YOUR specific job, which is also stuff you probably never even think about, while the desktop support techs are the one's getting paid peanuts as well as the one's you are yelling at on the phone for being slow and incompetent.
What was the first thing on the web?
Hello Mr.Tim,  What would have been widely used by you if you haven't made the WWW ? or simply asking what is your alternative for WWW so you can feel secure in case WWW falls in usage.
You know nothing Kautkto.
actually they can all be the same server. :D   At my university we have multiple machines on a single IP address. The HTTP standard has you indicate the host/domain that the request falls under, the IP address just sends which machine handles it.    so an HTTP request could be sent to the same IP address with different host specification in the request. Essentially more than one domain on just one machine. 
This may have been asked; Do you get approached by government agencies to help them get citizens personal information?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Thank you for subscribing to Alphabet Facts. To stop, text STOP to 54634.
Or cat porn.  ^it's ^a ^porn ^genre, ^too, ^you ^know.
#rekt
[deleted]
There are a lot of great videos on the subject. Vsauce has one, too. I'd recommend it.
Who the fuck gives out reddit gold to the inventor of WWW?
[deleted]
"This isn't why I invented this"
[deleted]
I'm going to shake my head in agreement and hope I look like I understand what's going on

Well, he's a Titan.
    ? EDIT OMG  
Maybe he plans on flying on small aircraft or on a Malaysian airline?
The beeper's coming back. Technology is cyclical.
Where can you see the internet going say, 40 years in the future?
It'd be nice if you were right.
Oh dear overlord of the web! Can you bless us with the series of tubes filled with cat? 
They say every country does at least one thing really well.  The one thing for sure the British do really well, is name drinking establishments (aka pubs).    I surely expect there to be some pubs in England/Scotland named after something in Lord of the Rings or Harry Potter.  And something obscure at that.  If not, why not?
[deleted]
And the believers of anything a liberal says, continue to believe.. If Al Gore said he invented earth, liberals would find a way to prove it. Hilarious actually.
people will always complain  how about they start supporting the people who offer them a service for once???
There were phones with screens with clocks in them in the 90s, FYI. 
    Ooo!
Is it only me or has he really answered very few questions?
[deleted]
Being a fairly tech savvy person I did not know you could do this 
Aside from WWW, what'd you want to wish you had invented?
Thats racis
5ever
~~I realise that, but carrying such phones in one's pocket was not commonplace.~~  Edit: I concede this statement is not completely correct.
Yes
No, you have it all wrong, Al Gore created the internet, right?
     Interesting
Dude, its politics. Thomas Jefferson's campaign called John Adams a hermaphrodite during the 1800 election, its part of the game and always has been. 
    [Bandwagon]&lt;---me
Can anyone verify this as true?
When there are two versions of an app, one that serves ads with the side effect of compromising your privacy , and one without that: how does spending money for ad free version not send the message?
Well I don't necessarily suggest a technocracy. I just believe there are certain specific cases which go so much over our heads we should agree to let those that truly understand the implications make these choices. Kinda like we already do for a number of tough decisions ("is this law against the constitution?" - lets let the judges decide...).  As far as I know kids already have computer classes in middle and high school (I know I did, and that was a while ago). Sure we could always teach kids earlier, but I feel we already have trouble teaching them to read and write properly (not to mention speak), so I think they already have enough on their plate. Once all the kids are proficient readers we can talk about teaching computing. 
It's *an* established convention. That doesn't mean HTTP necessarily needed to use the same convention. Theoretically, it could have used "com/reddit/www" and required the browser to translate that to "www.reddit.com".  In other words, considering a different syntax for URLs does not necessarily imply any need to change the way DNS works. And the fact that DNS existed already does not preclude using a different syntax.
Hello sir! My question: How do you think the relation between science and Technology?
Raise your hand if you jerked off to [ASCII porn](http://www.asciipr0n.com/pr0n/pinups/pinup10.txt). \*Raises hand\* *Sigh*
The problem with "tech savvy" is everyone things they are it.  Just go look at NewEgg reviews.
Never happened.
hey moron- he DID take the initiative in creating the internet- by being virtually the only member of Congress to do so. but guess what...that is NOT the same as saying "I invented the internet" except to the mental deficients that watch or are on fox news- you know, republicans.   
&gt; Haha you got told off by the inventor of the ~~internet~~ Web 
It's *just that simple.*
Hmm, in this case it would take a lot of learning to be able to see whether or not net neutrality is a positive thing in itself. I feel i'm quite proficient with computers in general and i'm not certain that net neutrality would necessarily be a good thing in the long term. On the philosophy behind it I love the idea of it, but once again I know I don't have the necessary knowledge to evaluate how not having net neutrality would impact both our daily lives and the investment schemes of the network providers. Potentially, not having net neutrality could create an incentive for ISPs to up their game (increased profits, so increased competition)...   As I said, I love the concept but am not quite sure of what it implies for the long run. Communism is a lovely ideal (purely equal societies, each man is worth as much as the next, etc), but the implementation was disastrous. This is why I would prefer to have someone who shares my ideals and has knowledge of the subject to represent me.
dammit, I hate when people get these confused too... my sincerest apologies whiteandpastry.
    Cool.
Speaking of Net Neutrality, how do you feel about how you were portrayed in thejuicemedia's [Net Neutrality video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-xSP_T0VqU) (6min 22sec)?
    Cool.
[deleted]
    my goodness!
Can't get shit done without the money, and Gore's efforts were a big part of what financed it. 
All of these could work without the internet.    But I think you missed the one part that couldn't - the actual mining.
Right?  Had involvement in the greatest technological achievement of the last half century as well as popularizing and being a focal point for the largest global issue, probably of the next half century (global warming). Harvard graduate with honours, Vietnam vet. The guy has an impressive pedigree.  But no, huge dork. I'll vote for the guy I'd like to drink a beer with. GWB isn't the moron people make him out to be but he's certainly not nearly as remarkable a man.
[Here you go!](http://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/2pcr8h/til_the_first_thing_ever_bought_and_sold_across/)
[Wearing heavy-duty gloves installing Cat-5 cable.](http://i.imgur.com/GG6UN6y.jpg)  Anyone doing this would likely be laughed out of a job.
What? Of course it was. 
You mean you're Al Gore?
Technically we did vote for him.  Al Gore won the majority vote in 2000, but because of our ~~stupid-fucking-ass-backwards-only-half-democratic-voting-system~~ electoral college, Bush got the presidency.
Bird on the egg, egg in the nest, nest on the twig, twig on the branch, branch on the limb, limb on the tree, tree in the hole...
It happens. I joined 8 years ago, took a 4 or 5 year break, then rejoined.
hole in the bird... I forget where this is going.
And only Republicans. No other political party in the history of the universe has ever done that ever.
Ewwwww that is as bad as the American date system.
you think magazine was bad? Cavemen's paintings were way worse.
Save your apology for Al Gore.
wow throw it right in your face and you still cant take a joke, you are seriously deranged. 
Do you love me? cause I love you.
Online games are probably a better example, assuming they're not browser based I guess.
he didn't invent the internet. he invented the website and the world wide web.
Wait, I thought Al Gore invented the internet?
exactly.
PEDANT  [Tim Berners-Lee didn't invent the hyperlink.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperlink#History)  /PEDANT (sorry)
Yo, balle balle
Man you know you should, go 'head and back that cashe up.
Wouldn't making the Internet more human make it worse? Humans screw up everything.
    Potato
[deleted]
That really is the definition of a technocracy as I believe it: experts in the environment make environmental decisions; professional teachers make education decisions; transportation engineers make decisions on transit; experts in telecommunications make decisions on Internet problems [though when this happens, everyone cries foul because they're "too tied to the industry", whatever the heck that means; see Wheeler for an example]; etc. Politicians are good at one thing: being politicians, and that's not really a useful skill-set when it comes to regulating things they don't understand. Technical experts should make technical decisions and write legislation regarding that technology, not out-of-touch just-get-re-elected politicians.  I don't pretend to speak for the US school system (I'm from Ontario, Canada) but if there is problems teaching children the 3 Rs, then there is a problem with the school system, period. It's not about what children have "on their plate": 14 years of schooling should be more than enough. if they're not being taught properly and efficiently by well-funded schools and teachers that care, then there's no point and it's all wasted effort, because they won't or can't learn. The sad state of the (North) American K-12 system rests almost entirely on lack of funding and public respect for teaching as a profession, not to mention insane things like No Child Left Behind and "teaching to the test".
And the green grass grows all around all around... 
How close are you and Al Gore?  What are your ideas to solve global warming and climate change?  not sure if legal to say since I'm in florida. 
Why do I feel like I just read the transcript from QI... are you Stephen Fry?
STOP
This is an example of an HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) request and response. HTTP is the protocol of the Web. You may remember HTTP from the beginning of the URLs to websites, like http://reddit.com. The [grandparent post](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2ykyht/i_am_sir_tim_bernerslee_inventor_of_the_web_join/cpaoxws) connected (via a program called "telnet") to port 80 (the standard HTTP port) of a fictional server called "tim" and requested the page called "/what-do-you-think-about-memes.html". The lines like      Key: Value  are called headers, and specify additional information (like preferred language, in this case, en-US/American English).  My response used the status code 403 Forbidden. This is similar to 404 Not Found, with which you may be more familiar. The part beginning with "&lt;!doctype html&gt;" is an HTML (HyperText Markup Language) document, which is the actual markup language webpages are written in. You can view the HTML content of a webpage by going to the "view source" option in your browser's menu.  The actual HTML document only contained an image, https://i.imgflip.com/io4y2.jpg  TL;DR: This is an HTTP request followed by a response, which is what happens under-the-hood whenever you go to any webpage.  Also, FYI, Tim Berners-Lee created both HTTP and HTML.
You monster. 
[deleted]
Oh my god. Hi! I know you are done answering, but I just want to give it a chance. I did a project on you for something called NHD (National History Day). I advanced to regionals, but ended up deciding not to compete. When I read about what you did, I was amazed. Thank you for providing the world with this technology that a third of the World uses.    And by the off chance you are still looking through, I want to ask two questions.    What new technological breakthrough with the Internet/web do you think will happen in the next few years, and what do you want to happen?    Thanks. This is already buried, but it's worth a shot. I always come late to these things...
What's the prize? 
    Hello World
[deleted]
    o_o
That was the dream narration every Superhero SysAdmin wished he had.
    test
[deleted]
I was referring to the revolutionary war and the war of 1812. Don't know what train of thought you were on.
Are you mad that in Futurama it is Al Gore who's credited of inventing the internet?
IRC, torrenting, FTP......
No, this is the internet. I'm not speaking from England. If you think referring to a fellow human by his given name is disrespectful, you need to rethink your priorities.
Thats a straw man, and you probably know it.
You mean grammar Nazi?  Not all Americans are nitpickers. Go spread your BS somewhere else. 
Currently doing a very basic course at the moment in powershell, do you have any supplementary material for me to take in / any online courses?  Regards  Maxi 
Referring to a fellow human by his given name is respectful. I'm not diminishing his accomplishments, but "sir" implies that he is in a different class than I am. As an American, I reject that.
The /u/ashooin effect
And going a bit further - #meganet
[deleted]
This just makes me think of "Some call me... Tim?"
    Very amaze       So space      Such Doge      *WoW.*
[deleted]
[deleted]
The dude was a genuine nerd before a lot of redditors were born.
    Am I a hacker now?
    You started this.
Hell yeah, a NeXT box!  Interesting history behind those things!  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NeXTSTEP  (The NeXTSTEP OS still exists today...it's Mac OS X).  
I would think it would read more like http://com.www.reddit/r/iama/  Reasoning being protocol://TLD.(interface type).domain/however/you/configure/your/stuff  Since protocol largely governs interface, you could probably lose the www (ironically enough). Maybe you'd make non-human UIs different, like http://com.api.google/path/to/data/to/pull  But just spitballing, ya know?
...How on earth would an employer get my browser data?
Fellow sys admin here - happen to know if he published that script? Id love to have that in my aresenal. 
That song is catchier than the Top 40.
If that fellow human being holds certain offices or titles it is customary to address them in certain ways unless you want to look like an ill-mannered idiot. I doubt you would you say "Hi Barack" if you were to be introduced to the President. You address a foreign ambassador as "Your Excellency", or a Cardinal as "Your Eminence" and that's just a few examples...
Yeah, I think that makes the most sense too. Honestly the 'http' probably isn't needed for the same reason www isn't. Just have it be the default unless you pick something else (which is how most browsers handle it now ofc)
 Not REKT  REKT  
    Are we all computers now?
Rofl. Relevant username even.
I thought Gore invented the internet?
Would you address Obama as President Obama? Similarly, Sir Tim would be correct usage. It doesn't imply different class at all, I'm not going to kneel before him or pay taxes to him, it's respect for the title. 
Not really related, but he also pushed into existence [this pretty badass satellite](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_Space_Climate_Observatory) that *finally* got launched last month.  =D  (Yeah, I voted for him.  But it was in FL so it didn't really count.)
     I am interested...
[deleted]
[deleted]
They made a movie about it.
    wooowwwww 
I fully agree with everything said (except that definition of technocracy not being exactly what I was advocating).  So when and where are you running for MP so I can make sure you get my vote?
Was waiting for "everybody walk the dinosaur."
replying about memes while referencing a meme. this is THE shit. **SALUTE**
mining happens on Transport (Layer 4) tcp where as the WWW is Application (Layer 7)  http://www.webopedia.com/quick_ref/OSI_Layers.asp   though pools have websites with info on how to join and create accounts and workers so I guess your argument is kinda valid :D
Ehh, I wouldn't say you're exactly correct. AFAIK, the Ministry of State Security is like the FBI, it's more focused on domestic and counter intelligence operations. As to the counterpart to the CIA, I suspect it has some innocent name like Troop 736 or something like that. It was in the news a while ago that the NSA was able to track down cyber attacks coming from buildings owned by such army divisions in Shanghai.
I'm pretty sure /u/gdj11 meant that his sex life *was* masturbation, so it's not really a burn just a restatement of a hilarious self-depricating remark.  Was that really not obvious?
Gone. Life handed me lemons. 
[deleted]
Man, I studied Latin with vitalik in HS and its crazy how well-known he is now due to etherium
Like in Asimov's, *I, Robot*! I love that book. After I read it, I became less pessimistic about AI.
Legend has it that /u/grawity only posts when the moon shines blue.
The only way to pass that question would be to convincingly talk about the physical sensation of love and how it conflates meaning and irrational human existence.
As a dude on the internet, I've never been harassed solely because of my gender, and women do. Nobody has ever sent anything remotely resembling an r/creepypm.   I'm not denying that men and women both get harassed on the internet, but I think its not unfair to say women are more targeted.
Why does it look like an airplane?
The fact that this comment got 3 times as many upvotes as the one  before it says all too much about our intelligence as a whole.
Thanks for sharing. Just went down a rabbit hole of information about all that. I don't think of myself as a politically biased person but I had definitely written Gore off as a quack. That was really cool to read to about that and i really appreciate you sharing that quote/perspective - I learned something. Thanks!
As I said, people target different things based on what they think will hurt you the most. As a general rule, it's likely nothing specifically against your gender, it's just what they think will cause the most damage to you and that *can* be targeting your gender. Someone's been calling me a screaming teenager for the last five hours because I asked them to actually do and show the research they claimed they did. Why? Because they think insulting my age and intelligence is the way to hurt me. It's not, it's making me laugh my arse off in between bouts of Skyrim, but it's what they're doing.
Sadly Gore never seemed able to craft the truth into a good sound bite and instead we got some quasi I created the internet BS that hurt him politically.
I believe it's banned on most default subs.
Linguistics is a really cool field. Very logical, but doesn't require math and is more applicable than philosophy. 
He's used them in his [first ama](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2091d4/i_am_tim_bernerslee_i_invented_the_www_25_years/cg0y6o4).
There's also an xkcd browser app for mobile, and 2 apps for iOS called xkcd and xkcd HD. One is not just an upgraded version of the other, however; they're by different developers. I have Android myself so I can't say which is better (though I can recommend the xkcd browser Android app)
I would swear this was a bot post if not for the arbitrariness of your name.
How do you do this wizardry
It appears to have briefly become /r/shittytumblrgifs, given the URL.
With God, duh.
[deleted]
I know it's not the same thing *at all* (ads, bloatware), but uTorrent just did exactly this and got boo'ed to hell. I think companies will have a hard time breaking away from that stigma. Could somebody please explain why I'm wrong?
 "During my service in the United States Congress, I took the initiative in creating the Internet." - Al Gore interviewed by Wolf Blitzer on CNN, March 9, 1999  Sixteen years of damage control has since informed us that he didn't mean he created the internet when he said he created the internet.  He also said he &amp; Tipper were the inspiration for [Love Story](http://www.nytimes.com/1997/12/14/us/author-of-love-story-disputes-a-gore-story.html).   He also said global warming would cause ocean levels to rise a Florida-swallowing 20 feet by the end of the 21st Century when the experts' worst-case scenarios were 18 inches.  Al Gore is either delusional or he's so accustomed to lying (or at the very least "embellishing") that he's lost touch with the truth.
What is your favorite thing currently on the internet?
Fucking saved. God damn. XD
Do you ever wish you invented the WWE and got really into professional wrestling?
Well he didn't invent the internet.
&gt; SAN is actually Storage Area Network.   So it's a NAS placed near a mirror?
What is your opinion on NSA backdoors and spying, Snowden, and Kim Dotcoms situation and building his own IP-less Internet/
[deleted]
What's the coolest website you've ever seen?
    and of what format are your non-human best friends?
Something something a network of over 1000 advertisement companies harvesting your browsing history something something monetizing it something something data aggregators selling it.
Issue is that there was a bug with uTorrent that automatically installed it without the user's consent on quite a few machines.
...except it was.  You were born in the 90s or later, weren't you?
I guess he's one of today's lucky 10,000.
No he did nothing, the military invented the damn thing and didn't need any approval from Congress to spend the budget that way.
[deleted]
Can confirm, jumped from sysadmin at tiny shit company to support engineer at AWS, almost tripled salary despite taking a step "back" in terms of actual job duties. Companies that value IT staff (support engineers at AWS are effectively IT staff) pay much better than companies that don't.
    this is going to be a thing for about a week
It's more than just the syntax being batshit, but the reality is that PowerShell is the best way to approach most Windows problems these days. It's robust enough with the built-in cmdlets as of 3.0 that it's a pretty useful language, and trying to hack OS-level or hypervisor-level integration into Python can be a real pain in the ass sometimes. (Go ahead, enjoy trying to manage Hyper-V without PowerShell.)
[deleted]
[deleted]
You'd think you would have a pretty big say in what happens!
##NO FUCKING BLINK TAG?!?!?!?!?!?!?
I'm just curious: how would you vet this supposed alternative?  Because to me - if there's one app that has a paid and "free" version, and there's an app that *only* has a free version, I'm going to be a bit more suspicious of the free-only app because it suggests they can make all their money off the free version, as opposed to the other developer who at least requires some income from people buying the app.  And how do they make that money without a paid version?  Do magic fairies fly in and give it to them?  I doubt it.
[deleted]
(*sorry*)  How many Kanyes does that convert into?
I disagree with the assertion that the internet is the most pervasive invention. Surely electricity holds that title.
    Awesomesauce
    Woa dude
You are of course correct.    However I do think we should go easy on people who make this mistake since for many people for many years their perception of the internet WAS the WWW (in fact even remains true for many to this day).  It was the WWW that made the internet take off and become a thing for many, it is what popularised it and turned it into an accessible tool that people other than tech heads or academics etc would or could use.  Comparatively those of us that used the internet pre WWW are an insignificant amount vs those who suddenly had the world thrown open to them by the advent of the WWW.  But anyway, yes you are technically correct and we all know that technically correct is the best type of correct :-)  It is worth pointing out though, especially to ensure that those who really did invent the internet get their due credit.  So yeah, im not criticising your post in any way.  Just feeling like having a ramble. ;-P  
Other Parties have had a point were they are capable of feeling shame. Republicans haven't show that yet.
[deleted]
Non-mobile: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Turing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Turing)  ^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F)
"Christ, my subset of SGML became a widely-used format among uni's for information... And it streamlined porn."  *lotion up*
It's the Java style, not Android style (well, I guess it is the Android style, but only *because* it's the Java style). I think it's preferable to others.
You always hear about this supposed system of checks and balances.  Who checks the Supreme Court?
Stupid Americans.
VR is here. Bandwith is not. 
Which platform and what app are you on? Serious question, trying to avoid any debate on what's better here...  My point of questioning is more to bring up the topic of smarter hit detection zones. Safari on iOS, even since 1.0, has always had insanely good hit detection even for the smallest links in the smallest fonts, which makes me curious why you had so much trouble with a little link.
    testing - sorry bout this
Blame Florida man...
As an Australian I can't wait for the NBN to be finished being built and help usher us into this brave new worl... oh wait... oh yeah...   http://i.imgur.com/sc1G7rn.gif  http://i.imgur.com/gyQhvXY.gif
Is Dave my hero?
    Test post please no upvote
[deleted]
The angry internet mob aparently. 
Shadow copies are Window's version of snapshots; typically, you can think of them like a delta between save states of files (or commits if you're savvy with version control).   It's also the same functionality (VSS) used for system restores.
I bet he made his own.
A question.  Kind Sir Tim  I am glad that I was able to hear your golden words. I believe that people who are superstars on ama do not interest many scientifically enthusiasts. So your visit was pleasing to a lot of folks. Also ty for inventing the WWW!!!! But before parting I have a humble request. Can you educate me about how I can learn computer language without spending money for I don't have a penny at the moment? Haha...  and I will be glad if I get to hear from you personally. Thank you Sincerely Atomic 
It's exactly the same, except the alternative is in a straightforward order of most general to most specific rather than the inverse order DNS stuck with. Especially if you lose the http: and combine it with the superfluous /www/  DNS the other way around (tld.domain.host as opposed to host.domain.tld) was actually used in some places on the early internet but, like VHS vs. Betamax, the more illogical technology won because raisins. 
The way you wrote AMA in your proof pic is great.  Especially the left diagonals on "A".  I perceive the other diagonals implicitly, I'm guessing due to some sort of assumed parallelism?  Thanks for showing me that :)
Just you wait... I'll bring calculus into linguistics... they called me a mad man... a hula hoop... a see saw...
Thank you.  I never knew that much about the letter "m".
[deleted]
No - Network Attached Storage is attached to a normal computer network, but a SAN is a network in its own right that handles only storage related tasks. 
Except I'm pretty sure the "I invented the internet" soundbite does not exist.  What he said was accurate.  http://www.snopes.com/quotes/internet.asp
[deleted]
Well, he did get elected. The other team just stole the election.
Hey the recount in Florida was overseen by a completely unbiased group of all Republicans who diligently studied the law and found a hanging chad upon which to hitch their wagons.
The CPU/hard drive /useless boxy bit
Let's say someone asked a dumb question and a great question in the same post. Your vote will apply to the whole set of questions as opposed to the "good" question that you thought was good. Keeping questions separate allows for the best ones to float on top and the worst to sink to the bottom. 
And the most Hobbitish. 
Or, alternatively, they could harvest us to build more computers out of our atoms.  That would be cool, too.
Most modern browsers dropped support
[deleted]
70s actually. Just wasn't thinking too much about it. Probably should have said 1980s in my original comment.
There is [The Hobbit Pub](http://www.thehobbitpub.co.uk/) in Southampton which was hit with legal action some years ago because if it's name - it had been trading for 20 years as The Hobbit but when the new movies came along the production company decided it was infringing on its trademark so they sued. Sir Ian McKellen (Gandalf) and Stephen Fry (that horrid town dictator chappie) stepped in and paid a license fee for the name, so the pub is as it was. 
Actually you're probably right for the late 90s. I didn't have one until well into the 2000s though. I probably should have used 1980s in my original comment.
[deleted]
That's how shared hosting works.
Know any good ciders? Old Peculier is actually my favourite beverage so I just had to chip in.
sTBL is not a modern browser, he is ***THE*** most vintage of all browsers.
He did invent the WWW and it made the internet useful as an informational exchange. The WWW is the reason the Internet gained wide spread popularity. However, you are on to something almost everyone on here doesn't notice. He did not by any means invent the internet. IT WAS BEFORE HIS CONTRIBUTION OF THE WWW. The invention of the internet is the product of a lot of people but is often given to the creators of the TCP/IP protocol Robert Khan, and Vint Cerf. So those of you thinking him for the things you do outside your web browser on the internet are thanking him for something he had largely nothing to do with.
[deleted]
Is the purchase forced? That's weird...shouldn't this kind of attack be easily be exposed tho? Like where does the money go?
    How can text be real if our eyes aren't real
It was all political.  People would say "I invented the internet!" in as sarcastic of a tone as possible.
Measuring it wasn't the question?  I wouldn't assume to a fine degree, at least.  Has fame changed you?  Could you not reflect upon who you were and who you are now, and presume that some degree of who you are now is due to fame?
    SPAAACCEEEEEE
And yet, you see the comment above, which thought the mockery was appropriate.  But it never was.
I feel like a "Let Sir Tim Berners-Lee Retire" campaign would be wildly successful.
&gt;  if it is still there.  Complete with the requisite British fatalism.
Horizon is a fork of NXT and bitnation is still vaporware? I could be wrong but those are my impressions. 
[deleted]
Do you think the future of internet will be a decentralized, crypted, peer to peer medium, where we no longer have to rely on a single provider for data? Can web applications one day store and run on millions of nodes?
Can't inches have it's own symbol? It took me longer than I'd care to admit to understand your damn sentence!
[deleted]
I was 11 at the time. I did everything I could.
It's ok. I just felt old for a minute there. I think I had a flip phone in like '97 that had a rudimentary screen on it. Big step up from my pager, though. 
That hadn't occured to me when I wrote it, but I suppose:  *Oh, there's a 100% chance of 3.  Of snow.*  Probably isn't the most grammatically correct way of saying it.  
I don't mind a good root.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Why would you just go and randomly check his post history over a not so intriguing comment?
Just tagged him in blue as rare
Weird, I was thinking harry Potter. 
[deleted]
Aussies say Freeway, we're different than both Americans and the British thank-you-very-much.
The only tools the Supreme Court has to enforce its decisions are tradition and respect for the institution, as its decisions must be enforced by agencies of the executive branch of federal, state, and local governments.  If the Court were to go off the deep end and make rulings with no basis in law and precedent, the executive branch could simply decline to enforce the decision. That would set off a constitutional crisis, of course, and the legislative would likely have to intervene.  Additionally, the Court bases its rulings on federal and state laws and constitutions, so if the legislature disagrees with a decision, they can pass a new law or amend the Constitution. This has certainly happened before - the slew of constitutional amendments after the Civil War superseded many antebellum court rulings. In more modern times, there were proposals for Congress to pass a constitutional amendment outlawing flag-burning in order to overrule the court's decision that burning of the flag is an act of political speech protected under the First Amendment. State gay marriage bans were also an attempt to trump the courts (the bans weren't strictly needed, since gay marriage had never been recognized), but the courts are now ruling that same-sex marriage is a right protected under the US Constitution, which trumps state laws.
Don't you Americans say something relevant to this... something about cold, dead hands...?
Executive branch appoints the Judges, and Congress can pass amendments that go past the court.
Are you Al Gore?
That wouldn't have been possible if it was cryptolocker 2. That evades all passwords and restricted areas and encrypts everything. Even shadow copies
The point is that misspelt is how it is spelt in British English, it's not spelt that way in American English. Spelled is also used in Britain though.
[deleted]
[deleted]
I always thought Web 3.0 was the "Semantic Web"? 
REKT?
/http/com/reddit/www/r/IAmA/c, is better..
My friend got hit but their admin did not have setup backup on their SAN and computer. We had to pay $600 AUD and we did not even get all documents back.
I would say the majority of internet users wouldn't know what any of those are.
Do you use Mozilla Firefox since it promotes open web?
Considering you call yourself 'not an IT guy', I have to say you did pretty well with that attempt at clarification, compared to many... Source: Nine years at a global web hosting company.
bandwidth to supply a vr image is certainly here, and then some  even up to like 400hz at 4k if youre on fiber
Egg in the hole in the bird in the egg THANK GOD A CYCLE I'M FREE
not in this country you aint  ?
    I gotta try this
You invented the world wide fractal
[deleted]
In Firefox and Chrome you can also select any plaintext URL and open it via the context menu.
I think you're wrong about net neutrality. Let me give you a simple scenario. There's technology today that allows a doctor to perform surgery from a remote location by controlling a robot in the operating room. This technology requires fast lanes, packet prioritization, quality of service guarantees, etc. Net neutrality requires that the data from the remote surgery be treated the same as the data from somebody watching Netflix. How do you address this?
    test
You created the greatest invention of all time. How does it feel to know that?
&gt;Victoria will be with me via phone today  There's more than one way for that to be true, but I think Victoria is doing the typing. 
[deleted]
    potatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatopotatovvv
I would love that... domains/subdomains vs. how directories/subdirectories work is annoying
m.xkcd.com =)
[deleted]
    Yeah me too  Edit: #WOAH.
&gt; dig.csail.mit.edu  @the high school I went to my email was name@mail.[schoolname].k12.nj.us
**Sir** Tim Berners-Lee
Long live dank memes.
he problably has a plugin that can see that kind of stuff.
The telnet protocol itself is plaintext; telnet clients merely display anything received to the user and send anything typed to the server, so you can similarly connect to any plaintext protocol like HTTP and manually send a request (and receive a response) like a browser would. The use of encryption in SSH requires a defined protocol for establishing the identity of the server to the client and the identity of the user to the server, and negotiating which encryption algorithm to use, so you can't do that using an SSH client. HTTPS is also incompatible with both telnet and SSH clients since neither implement the SSL/TLS protocols used by browsers.
[Yes](http://hejibits.com/comics/2012-08-13-enchanted-executable.png)
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Lo*rr*d
that's interesting how when it's a lord one consonant in their name randomly doubles, cheers
[deleted]
Tim approves of Cryptocurrencies.   I met him once about 2 years ago. I explained I was interested in them and researching them. He said they're a good idea, but that they're another great example of how tools can be used for good and bad.
&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;
There is nothing stopping people creating private VPNs that prioritise traffic, or ISPs having end points at both locations and being able to garauntee a certain amount of latency / bandwidth with whatever SLA you like. This sort of service is already available and doesn't conflict with net neutrality at all. It just costs. 
    me too
Fucking Jitterbug Gang.
Mank mou mor mour melightful momment.
......Hear that.....? That's the sound of all 15 Semantic Web researchers crying.
I met him once, mentioned cryptocurrencies. He said they're a good idea, but another good example of how tools can be used for good and bad.
.
I accidently hovered over his name and RES has a feature where it pops up with user info and it said 9 years with only 500 comment karma, so I was curious.
Correct! RES.
How do you feel about Ted Nelson and how his ideas compare to your own?
Do you correct people when they make some comment regarding you inventing "the internet"?
**^( ^ ^ ^)** (   ) **^( ^ ^ ^)**
&gt; internet  TBL didn't invent "the internet".
web != internet
&gt; internet  TBL didn't invent "the internet".
web != internet
web != internet
web != internet
&gt; Internet  web != internet
&gt; Internet  web != internet
I think it may have started off that way. But it feels like a contract I cant get out of and they've raised the prices 1000%. 
Why are you trying to steal credit for Al Gore's work?
    must test 
How did you feel when Al Gore claimed he invented the Timmy, I mean the internet?
    test comment. please ignore or guild
[deleted]
Think the history's a bit off there, wasn't it basically started by grassroots, then vultured by big business, then snatched back ad nauseum?
And this is why we get shitty results.
"you weird ass-language,"
/r/floridaman? 
Imagine when the machine are becoming smarter than us. Then imagine the sophisticated viruses put into those machines...
Reddit doesn't like comments that don't fit the narrative.
Also Pidgin w/ OTR, Telegram (though there was criticism here) and others.
Check the source code, have it audited, etc.
Doesn't help that GamerGhazi (and likely SRS) have been on a brigade today.
Is SRS the one with all the gross people in?  Ahahaha the fucking scum shitcunts read this comment
[deleted]
Shameless plug appreciated.
I am Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the Web. Join me to talk about making the future of technology more human, reddit. AMA! How about we flip this process on its substrate Tim?  Question: Why dont we instead strive to make humans function in a more technologically advanced manner, than they currently do? First imagine a world where all the computers were running mutually incompatible software. Hardly an algorithm capable of engendering peaceful efficient coexistence, or productive functionality, is it? But as long as humans ingest ideological garbage, fail to perform a vital checksum operation on its validity, then output their own semi-processed garbage back into the population were not going to progress. To put it another way. If we are willing to trust our kinds future, to the electronic junctions of inanimate materials. Maybe we should attempt to incorporate into our own bio computers, that subjective detachment technology appears capable of. 
&gt; What is the single most valuable thing I can do on an individual level to help defend the open internet?  post dank memes
When can we expect biological computers?
[deleted]
&gt; How could I measure that?  That's a no then :)
&gt; Spelled is also used in Britain though.  Not as common, though.
George W. Bush would have won a hand count of Florida's disputed ballots if the standard advocated by Al Gore had been used, the first full study of the ballots reveals. Bush would have won by 1,665 votes  more than triple his official 537-vote margin  if every dimple, hanging chad and mark on the ballots had been counted as votes, a USA TODAY/Miami Herald/Knight Ridder study shows. The study is the first comprehensive review of the 61,195 "undervote" ballots that were at the center of Florida's disputed presidential election.  http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/politics/2001-04-03-floridamain.htm 
Internet Explorer. 
[deleted]
Depending on exactly what the app is up to, I think it does.  If it's silently abusing your data, fine, avoid it.  If it's a choice between targeted ads and $1 for no ads, it sends a pretty good message - users want privacy protecting features.  It's possible to blend invasiveness with honesty and good intentions - it's just one more way to cover costs.   I'm not sure what Google makes off me in a year, but I would absolutely love an option to pay them directly and cut data tracking and targeted ads out of the loop.
Not necessarily - it's actually pretty possible to profit from users and their preferences without forcing people through silos.  I don't picture donation-run companies ruling the internet, but eventually the big-company war will settle down into some kind of stalemate.  At that point there ought to be room to profit off people's interactions with your content without trying to trap them in your domain.  At least, it's what I'd like to see.
That's properly documented here:  http://home.web.cern.ch/about/topics/birth-web/where-web-was-born  http://home.web.cern.ch/topics/birth-web
Not with the new android flowers
I'm going to school for computer engineering I can code a mean c++ program I have work with arduino and raspberry pi microcontroller (pi is not really a mcu but we will roll with it for now.) I have built multiple computers and am currently building a server.   I would think that qualified as tech savvy 
Slow clap. 
Have you heard of [Minitel](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minitel)?
What is your favorite use of the Internet?
Thanks for the internet bro. Obligatory questionmark?
Why do liars lie? Do you REALLY think we are THAT stupid Tim?
It says more about what we deem worthy of upvotes, and our sense of humor
lel...
    whaaaaat?
With a name like "Poes-Lawyer" surely you should prefer the Raven?
This is the correct answer.
&gt; You'd think this sounds dire, but one of their sysadmin guys shrugged it off like it was nothing.  The true hero we need. 
Didn't she die in the movie?
pixelated
Indeed, masturbation was implied, burn revoked.
American English, best English.
Tim sei Dank fr Memes.
Some of the best people are friends.
http://i.imgur.com/uzICz5h.jpg
IT'S "HEAR HEAR!" DAMNED.  Or should I not of said that? :P  ^^^People ^^^suck.
Probably using AoL
Set theory.  Not every fruit is an apple. An apple is inside the set "fruits". The set "Internet" is the big container. In it you have WWW, FTP, Email, Gopher, and tons of other shit.  The WWW is basically the Hypertext part of the Internet. (Simplified.)
Now you see the importance of Net Neutrality 
&gt; http://dig.csail.mit.edu/  FTFY
Can I have a job? I really want to work with you. I've got a great plan for the web 4.0, it skips your 3.0 idea because, well, that was a while ago now.
I know that you initially intended the web to be read/write.  Do you like Wikipedia? How would you like to see it develop in future?
As in the malt shovel on Cockburn street, Edinburgh?
It seems ironic to me that his comment hasn't been gilded yet.
I did, but I don't trust them totally :\
Reddit sync on HTC One M8
[deleted]
What frightens you about the concept of transmitting 3D HD wraparound video (and audio)? You'll still be able to tell that you're not really there. Do you think it will make people stay at home more or something?
[deleted]
he got gold for it and 582 upvotes :D 
&gt; It seems unreasonable not to imagine that [machines] will become smarter than us.  Won't happen. True intelligence requires a conscious perceiver, and to achieve that, I had to make humans be the universe in person, so I don't expect machines with perception any time soon. If we ever create something like that, it will inevitably be inferior, except if it has love, and then there is nothing to worry about.  regards  God
It is simple to a sysadmin or a programmer.
TIL!
why do you think the answer will **not** be "people"? 
    does it work?
   3 spaces
  2 spaces
 1 space
     5 spaces
When did you find out about the deep web?
     6
AV (Anti Virus), not per s AVG. 
Are you a spider?
&gt; One does not simply ask the inventor of the WWW what he thinks about memes.  Think of Al Gore as the reason the WWW is a commercial juggernaut instead of being Usenet. He is probably *the* father of the commercial web.   Nevertheless, him saying he "took the initiative in creating the internet" would be like Bill Gates saying he "took the initiative in creating the personal computer"
I used archie and ftp back in the day.  And, I was a little more successful than you.  I remember downloading a wet_and_wild folder of pics, thinking beach babes.  It wasn't beach babes.
Yeah but what bugs me is that before WWW, there was a protocol called Gopher. The evolution was incremental. Claiming to have 'invented' the web is a big call. Did he invent the retrieval of a document over a network? Did he invent the textual link to a resource? Did he invent the separation of form and content ie CSS? Vint Cerf (is that right?) is another who likes this style of title. But there were so many people who worked on these technologies. There doesn seem to be much honour in failing to acknowledge all the people whose shoulders you stood on, even if you crystallized something as it became popular.
I need to learn more about computers, because I still pathetically  know shit.  Why am I on the web inventor's AMA, then!? Wait, I think because it's the inventor of the web, I suppose.
It doesn't matter - if either the Republicans or the Democrats had gotten the recounts they wanted, Florida would have still gone to Bush.   It's only a full state recount (which nobody was asking for) that showed Gore winning Florida. 
Your don't trust who, exactly? Bitcoin does not require trust, that's the point.
[deleted]
good lord don't ever venture into snmp
Eternal september isn't over ...yet.  [It's drawing to a close.](http://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm)  Most people are either online, or have a device capable of being online.  Within a year or two we'll have reached the first time since '94 that the number of people joining on the 'net/month starts to drop, and internet culture will have some time to consolidate rather than just being blasted apart by exponential growth.
More importantly, buy the pro version of any app that is valuable to you. Especially if it does *not* sell your privacy in a free version.
Except the term "eternal september" described an actual phenomenon.  And actual, observable phenomenons do not necessarily last forever, especially when they include the actions of human beings, despite the moniker.  The "eternal september" can end, though perhaps on the time scales of the early-mid 90's it seemed like it wouldn't.   
[deleted]
Also, he's answering in a HTTP GET fashion. One question with 1 response. 
&gt; Who checks the Supreme Court?  The supreme court of the next generation. 
So you want developers to remove advert-financed versions, even if they're upfront about what they're providing?  I'm convinced most users will skip the app and first look for an alternative that is "free" instead.
LPT for AMAs: if you ask two questions in one post only the first question will be answered.   Source: read dozens of AMAs, second question almost always gets ignored.
Technically wouldn't it also has massive negative affect associated with it, too?
[deleted]
How did it feel when Al Gore took credit for inventing the Internet?
I've developed an app that makes use of the Google AdMob service, as most ad-financed apps do. You can provide the service with keywords and the location of the user, nothing more. It's not a magic data-hoover.  I've chosen to provide the location, but limit its accuracy to around 11km.
Shhhh. Don't interrupt the 'jerk with facts!
Great point!  People keep saying this without understanding what it means..  The internet is a public implementation of WWW/HTTP.  It's nitpicky at best to make this distinction.  
     Wowe
Someone already mentioned online games, but specifically X-Box Live and Playstation Plus would be an easy and clear example that most people would understand.   I usually point out that the Internet was developed in the 1960s while the web was created in the 1990s and while the web is all a majority of people use (outside of email), conflating the web with the 'net is like conflating Facebook with the web. 
Dang you're right.  All the stuff you mentioned happens at layer 7 too though :)
Then, you're one of today's lucky 10,000.
And you'll get an internship/job somewhere, still thinking you can "code a mean program", screw up (like everyone does), realize you don't know shit, show some humility for a decade (hopefully), and eventually you'll be somewhat proficient.  Tech is a vastly complicated space.  10000 hours is real, if not more.  I realize this is an over-reaction from the uri dragging thing, sorry about that :)
Got it on my first time with an s4 and Reddit News. 
Back then, porn servers were called convenience store clerks. 
Sir, how you see the IOT industry, Where Internet plays very important role when integrated with hardware? 
    Testicles, please ignore
Reddit prefers the felis catus format.
IRC and FTP I would agree with you on but torrenting? You won't find many people under the age of 40 without at least a flawed superficial understanding of downloading shit illegally. 
[deleted]
You're joking, but the porn industries' decision to go with VHS over Betamax (due to the longer recording time) was a major factor in the outcome of the format war. 
I had this realization about two years ago. I wish somebody had told me sooner. Also: http://thecodelesscode.com/case/100  Also important to note: you'll never ever ever know all of it. There's always something to learn from somebody else. Even people with less experience. Even people with experience that could be considered outdated. 
Even the snide comment you have just written is protected under copyright law as a creative act.
rm -rf /boot  So it takes them awhile to notice and is just a pain in the ass to fix. No real data loss. 
There is an unbelievable amount of free learning content out there, enough to last several lifetimes; and a whole lot more with only a nominal cost (Udemy for example has hundreds of programming courses that cost under $200 and frequently go on sale for $25).  If you can't find a way to get started learning programming, you're not looking.
No, that was before the terrorists became a real political boogeyman.  Al Gore lost in 2000
Didn't Al Gore invent the internet??
TBL's reply: "People" giving them the dot feels.
Sure, but that would just make the real title "The inventor of the website endorses browser X".   That's even better in terms of endorsement.   "The inventor of guns endorses Colt" / "The inventors of planes endorse Boeing" / etc. 
    Pretty cool
Over 600 upvotes at the time of this post. I'd say well worth the research. 
Do you ever get tired of Americans pretending they invented... well, everything?  Without you we might not even have had Reddit. But as soon as Americans so much as cooperate on something, they'll often pretend they did everything by themselves. "We invented X" or "We won the War" (even though Russia and the Commonwealth did most of the fighting and the US just chipped in at the last stages). That sort of thing.
I was on the web when you could do a "list" command and see every active website.  The first time I did it there were 192 sites--I dot-matrix printed a list of them and pinned it to my cubicle wall.   Almost all of them were university sites, plus a few .gov addresses.  No commercial sites.   A few weeks later there were several hundred, and it went vertical from there.
Should be 500 page. ^
The worst-case scenarios are several meters, not 18 inches.  And as models have become more refined, the worse the worst case looks.
I hope this works -newbie 
Normally, I agree with criticism of the US, but conflating the NRA with Americans is a little too insulting. Contrary to popular belief, only slightly more than 1/3 of Americans own a gun and less than 5% of those gun owners are members of the NRA. 
I'm allergic. Makes visiting my Mom an issue because she is a crazy cat lady.
Oh are we playing Uplink again?
Have you seen how much happier Al Gore appears to be since leaving politics? I don't think he had enough self-loathing to subject himself to another political campaign. 
As humans we are intrigued with ourselves. But more importantly should we make technology that alerts us of potentially damaging changes to our environment? Air pollution monitors, UV alert monitors, water contamination monitors. These things are beginning to be significantly impacted by our behaviours. I'd like to know how much it's impacting me.
Fred Phelps also has awards from the NAACP for all the work he did to abolish Jim Crowe laws in Kansas. 
&gt; It normally is the person's last name, but not always.  How about that dude I know called Gaylord huh ? /s
&gt; and then went to work on their entire SAN  ...mother of god.
    dffasdf
Yeah because he was unable to craft a good message.  R's are always better at that the D's.
Fucking magical. I wish I was there, I looked up a video from Vsauce and the first message wasn't even fully sent before crashing.   Anyways, are any of those original sites still around?
perhaps he used the source code somehow?
I would say that making technology more human is having it more available to every one and by that I mean the entire world. What are your thoughts on that idea Sir Berners-Lee?
He also supported a lot of anti gay legislation back then too, then flip flopped on that when his party's line was for gay rights. 
[deleted]
Sure, but not in their original form (though there's a site that has archived a bunch of old sites, but can't remember the name).  One of them was UCSF, which of course still exists--but at the time it was a single banner page with a picture of the campus--no other links on the page.  But I remember the feeling I had (I mean really remember-it was like one of those 9/11 moments where you remember everything).  All of us looking at the screen could see that this was an astonishing advance from the current text-based command-line interface, and we knew that it would be HUGE.
And **boy**, were you right, as, hell.
Man the days of following threaded discussions using outlook express or some other client software.   That takes me back.
Feelin good on Wednesday ...   (Currently posting from the bathroom at work...) 
Are you -100%- certain your IT guy has the resources and tools their IT guy has?  Don't be so quick to assume....
&gt; People really don't understand.  No.. they don't.
Well the answer kind of covered both.
In the Bitcoin system, it's money I can't touch and AFAIK the value of a Bitcoin changes a lot in just a day : \ 
I'm glad to see that you didn't use =/=. 
^ And of course they rear their heads...  :/
That guy should write a guide! 
&gt; host001.prod.back.thing.onlinestuf.bl.aah.bla.co.uk  You still have 11 characters to spare!
so much this ^
Can you make a new internet? This one is kinda old.
Can you make a new internet? This one is kinda old.
I believe this is what he meant;  Ye old web ('web 1.0'), while it was open to anyone to produce, was mostly done in a one-way fashion from content creator (or curator) to user..  'web2.0'.. think of say Youtube; users are making and sharing tons of content, but they upload it to Youtube and therefore it becomes in part owned by Youtube. Thus it is a 'silo of user-generated content'. Feel free to replace youtube with facebook/twitter/reddit/imgur/whatever. Users generate the content but it is not owned/controlled fully by the user.  So he suggests the next big change might be when users break out of those silos so you don't need to give up control/ownership of your content to Youtube or Twitter to use/share it successfully. A decentralised model I suppose.
\&gt; Implying that they are.
[deleted]
&gt; It is not funny. It is not cute.
Only for the Scots.
Hello Sir! I am a game developer on the video game Pixel Piracy. In the game, you have to defeat all the four legendary pirates, and you are one of them. Are you cool with it? :)
Oh I don't mean run out and buy some, I meant take a look at the tech taking hold and spreading into the public mind.
www is a subdomain
The company I work for got hit by Cryptolocker about a year ago after a spam email got through the filter.  The recipient then decided to download the file, unzip it and run the .exe inside...  Sure enough the virus went straight for one of the Mapped Drives and started encrypting everything on the NAS. A few hours later I heard reports of people being unable to open files (they appeared corrupt), then more reports and before I knew what was going on, everything was goosed.   I managed to solve the issue after I noticed all the infected files had the same owner (the user that downloaded the virus in the first place), I used that information and my assumed time scale to scan the network. I then used that data to restore the files from my Backups.   Easy(ish)!
You know, that story made me realise my tech support job sucks in comparison.
where is your gold now ? There, there.
The "Mmm" sound can also be created by closing your mouth and allowing the sound from your vocal chords to pass through your nose. Many Humans use this sound to sing. try it!
I read his Ethereum blog, I love the guy's vision, and he can always get me thinking.
Scumbag Tim Berners-Lee
    I will also do this
Oh Tim said it so it must be true. Meanwhile, humor is still subjective.  ^(And women still suck, trolololololol.)
Hello, actual "cyber security expert" (i.e. pentester) here.  If you'd actually bothered to read my comment, you'd have seen that the documents were encrypted, but there were shadow copies. The malware kept a log of all the encrypted file names, allowing the admin to write a script that selectively restored the shadow copies from the previous day.
People pay for Adobe Reader? o.O
&gt; Oh Tim said it so it must be true.  Nope, just reiterating his point to express my agreement with it.
The censorship thing was his wife's angle.    http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parents_Music_Resource_Center
Non-mobile: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parents_Music_Resource_Center](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parents_Music_Resource_Center)  ^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F)
I don't know how to check but I think my lag maybe worse. 5 years+?
You, like I, were a victim of the propaganda apparatus of the early 2000's. My excuse is that,   A) I was roughly 10 at the time  B) My dial-up line was not robust enough to fact check this kind of shit and   C) I had a lot of Pokemon to catch and Sephiroths to vanquish at the time  However, [it's time we put this shit to rest, once and for all](http://www.snopes.com/quotes/internet.asp)  Al Gore is/was a pretty smart guy, and I think the world would have been a different place if this kind of mudslinging hadn't been so effective back in 2000. 
The GOP discovered to great success that a lie seasoned with sarcastic humor spreads much faster than a boring lie.
Eh, looks like he just threw together a quick page that displays the meme he made in basic HTML.  "img src=" inserts an image into the page, with "src" being the source of the image, in this case the link on imgflip. 
"Buy Sir Tim Berners-Lee a well-deserved Aston Martin"
When you were working on creating the web, did you propose any other names to call your new creation?
Computer Science has me around computers a lot, so I'm close I guess?
It's not really an XKCD thing. There should be alt text/alternate text on most websites you visit. It's text that shows up when you hover an image, or if your image fails to display like on a mobile device. It's supposed to be descriptive by nature.  Wikipedia describes it as:  "The alt attribute is used in HTML and XHTML documents to specify alternative text that is to be rendered when the element to which it is applied cannot be rendered."  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alt_attribute  Hope that clarifies any confusion you might have. 
    Wowzerz
Well said. I strongly encourage anyone even vaguely interested to read Bruce Schneier's latest book [Data &amp; Goliath](http://www.amazon.com/Data-Goliath-Battles-Collect-Control/dp/0393244814/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1426087258&amp;sr=8-1&amp;keywords=data+%26+goliath) which explores this. 
[deleted]
You da real MVP
Mmhmm, exactly. However you can see appliances such as a Centera (EMC brand, what I'm familiar with) that function extremely similarly to a NAS but are "bridged" between your SAN and "normal" network.  It can offer up remote file shares using NFS, be mounted on individual devices, etc. It's a cool piece of tech in theory but causes quite a bit of heartache when not managed correctly.
Just like Sony, right? They had a dedicated security team.. That worked out swimmingly for them.
how does it feel knowing you are directly responsible for the way the modern world connects?
We all know that Al Gore invented the Internet.  Sir Tim did hit "Build" in InterfaceBuilder.app to output WWW.app. And a little thing like the first httpd.  
[deleted]
The problem with "people" not immediately "getting it" is that you don't climb a tree by starting on the smallest twig of a branch.  It should be the other way around (just like a properly formatted date Year - month - date - hour - minute - seconds) 
You can't beat the SU for a reasonably priced double pint 
While both correct, "misspelled" is American English, not English English :P
I love you you stupid smart ass.
I need more of this. Where can a beginner go to learn more about networking basics like this? 
To be fair, I think asking the inventor of the most ubiquitous markup language in the world to use an alternative one (built on the bones of his own, no less) is a little douchey. 
I tried this, ended up as Mooooooo... the wife is very upset.
Have you ever confronted Al Gore?
Only if you buy into the right-wing perpetuated lie that Gore had nothing to do with the Internet, when he actually did.
[deleted]
&gt; the discovery of the internet  Wut. It's not a naturally-occurring phenomenon. It was created not discovered.
And Google Ultron.
Do you think the so called 'semantic web' has any use/potential considering that computers and AI are not at the stage of being effective enough to understand it?
[deleted]
That said, it's not uncommon for the server interface to the SAN to essentially be functioning as a NAS.  And there's some overlap:  The simplest NAS is a USB hard drive attached to a SOHO router with a USB port, which also describes (the world's shittiest) SAN (if you attach a USB hub and a few extra drives, and get that poor router to do RAID over USB...).
He did not claim to have "invented" the internet.  It's a subtle difference, and one that you might have to possess a tiny bit of intelligence to understand.    Also, his claim is entirely accurate.  He was much more well-informed on technology than his colleagues in the Senate and understood the potential that a worldwide connected network might represent, and took the initiative to legislatively support its development.
Themselves.
Yeah, and his ex-wife was a pro-record label censorship loony-pants. What does that have to do with the internet?  I'm not going to *defend* Gore on this, but he was hardly alone on this issue. He originally styled himself as a moderate democrat and that's about what I would have expected from a moderate Democrat  at that time.
Honestly, working with it hands on is one of the best ways to do it. Of course that's easier said than done especially if you don't work in the field. I'm a big proponent of academic learning as well, but it's more to learn the theory behind *why* you're doing A,B,and C.   PM me. I'll see what I can find.
It's technically title text now, not all browsers show a tooltip for alt text. 
Don't forget &lt;marquee&gt; too.
Yeah, maybe that would have been more appropriate. At least it's not like some "web designers" nowadays who use 200 for 404 pages.
Tim Berners-Lee created the Web, not the Internet. The Internet is much older.
I know, it's just grammar
Ah, thanks for clearing that up!  I've tried learning to make Android apps before, just assumed it was an android thing, but yeah like you said that does kind of make it a Java thing too.
Agreed. 75% of the time I'm posting some half-argumentative comment to someone who probably wasn't serious either, chuckling away at how hot headed he's gonna get while responding, or how unfunny my joke was. 2 minutes later that all familiar burnt-orange reply indicator lights up. Makes my day.
I would say that a basic internet/computer security literacy class should be enforced even if it is a few day session the other stuff is important for home networks, small office networks, and so on.  I think that a security/literacy class should be taught because of how much of your life is now controlled by these devices. Install an app on your computer you shouldn't have trusted? Cool now I inject my process into chrome and have the access to read everything you do, and if I'm smart I'm going to inject a root certificate into your trusted root store I can sign my applications with so I can install on your computer without UAC prompts among other things. Now I have access to your bank information, and your email which probably has access to other things like your tax returns, and so on.   Computer literacy is wildly important and sociology, mechanics, self-defense are all important it's not something people are being forced to use to operate with the rest of society. 
/r/theydidthemath 
Does the port # sill go after com in this scenario?
Look in the bottom of her eye.   "TIT"
You realise that america has titles too, right? Such as Justice, representative, mister president; not to mention all the military ranks, doctors, professors, etc. In the UK there are just civilian titles too that are given for good deeds to humanity / the country. I'd like to see you call a 4 star general by his first name upon meeting him. 
Well, the standard would probably still be the true URL starts http:// or ftp:// or whatever, even if the http portion is hidden by your browser - as ftp would be hidden by your FTP client.
[deleted]
I didn't say he said that. I quoted him exactly. But you go ahead and jump right to the personal insults all the while putting words in my mouth. I've come to expect it. 
Several meters! My goodness hadn't it better get started then? It's 2015 already. My daughter is down in Florida right now. She says the beach is right where it's always been.
I don't agree that a four star general and an academic are analogous in terms of titular respect. Yes, I would call him sir or general, because that's an earned title that involved, most likely, years of service that entailed being involved with potentially life threatening situations. And if not himself directly being in those situations, he had, presumably, meritoriously commanded those who were in such situations. It's not the same degree of respect, in my opinion, as someone who has achieved significant civilian accomplishments.  Furthermore, classes and ranks are an inherent part of military organizations, for the purpose of command and operations. Civilians are supposed to be citizens, all of the same rank, unless having been elected to office. There again, the person had been chosen to a higher rank for the purpose of leadership or operations.  It's the arbitrary nature of civilian titles that I object to, mostly. The implication that someone's achievements are recognized as having elevated them above the rest of us, based upon vaguely-defined and subjective criteria.
It just seems like a step in the wrong direction to me. I think recreating reality in a virtual world can only end badly. And yes, a dwindling appreciation for the not-virtual is a part of that.
It most certainly does imply a different class, and beyond implication, it's explicitly stated in the definitions of honorific titles. It's ludicrous to state that it doesn't imply such.  Comparing the president of the most powerful nation (for the time being, that's a different topic) on earth to an academic is similarly ridiculous.
Well I'd argue that being in command of someone in a life threatening situation isn't particularly praiseworthy. And even then then military ranks are just as arbitrary, someone above them decided to promote them, just as the united kingdom decided to honour Sir Tim for contributions to science. All titles are arbitrary in the end. If you aren't going to respect some, don't respect any or it is hypocritical. 
I'm sure that'll come in handy 3 years from now, assuming for a huge number of other variables.
Well the original Eternal September, sure. But every growing community has the potential to create its own subSeptember.  edit: Subtember. Duh. What was I thinking?
thats not actually true. the internet is a public implementation of tcp/ip. http is a protocol on the internet, like ssh or ftp. bitcoin does not need http to mine. there is a very big difference between www and the internet
Actually he's totally in agreement with you. He isn't asking that developers take down their free apps, he's encouraging the users to stop behaving in the way you wrote. So long as they do, developers should get the message and change accordingly.
That's a balance I'm totally ok with.  My app development has tried to strike a similar balance.  Ads aren't the devil, and targeted ads are more useful to the user than blind ones, but there's a line in there that I don't want to cross.  In terms of what I'd like to pay Google off to avoid I'm thinking about their direct data collection, but they'd be insane to agree to that - critical mass of user data drives too much of their success.
[deleted]
[deleted]
I still say they should have had recounts in every battleground state! I mean, if we're gonna make sure that every vote is counted, let's go all the way and let the chips fall where they may.   That said - if you're Al Gore, how the fuck do you not win Tennessee and Arkansas? That's just your own damn fault for not getting your own home state and distancing yourself from the most popular Democratic president in a generation.
...what?
From what I read, Sony's security team had IDS alerts about the breach, but they ignored them. Large / high-budget security teams don't necessarily translate to effective security.
Exactly my point.
Right, but in this case the security team actually knew what they were doing, as evidenced by their response.
Examples of things that use the internet but not the web include email (aside from webmail clients like gmail) and instant messengers.
Examples of things that use the internet but not the web include email (aside from webmail clients like gmail) and instant messengers.
So it wasn't censored by Betamax? 
 Romeo. 
I tried lol but now I know thanks.
And a street address, right?  &gt; 123 Fake St, Springfield, USA  Millions of people are used to seeing the small detail first in that context, but I agree, that should probably be written the other way around too. 
Fair point, but why would I want to go to a hole like the Raven? ^^^see ^^^what ^^^I ^^^did ^^^there?
talking about HTTP status codes I think.  Some error pages use a non-error code.
Like beers, it depends on your personal taste. Cheap stuff like Strongbow is the cider equivalent of Fosters, for example. Thatchers Gold and Blackthorn are your standard draught ciders you'll find in pretty much every pub in the West Country. They're a bit drier but still pretty good. Stowford Press is increasingly common too. Magners and Bulmers tend to be a little sweeter, but because they usually come in bottles they're more expensive in pubs.  I'm partial to pear cider (perry) too. They tend to be a lot sweeter. If you want to go down that road you can't go wrong with Kopparberg, which is my favourite.  Then you have your aged ciders, which tend to be stronger and drier. These are like a fine whisky - an acquired taste you'll probably work your way up to. They're tastier but they'll get you drunk twice as quick. My favourite of these is Henry Westons vintage 8.2% ABV.  So **TL;DR**, you basically have 3 main types of cider:  * Sweet: most pear ciders - I'd recommend Kopparberg, Rekorderlig or Stella Artois Pear Cidre  * Medium: the most common type you'll find in pubs - Thatchers Gold, Blackthorn, Strongbow, Magners, Bulmers, Stowford Press  * Dry - usually aged, extra strong apple ciders, like Henry Westons vintage.   If you find yourself in a pub tempted to try cider, my recommendation for a starting pint would be Thatchers or Blackthorn.  
You should come during the summer, the city is even more beautiful then. I'm a student at Bath Uni, and it's possibly one of the prettiest student towns in the UK (bold claim)
Funny how we Bathonians come out the woodwork where you least expect it :P
I wasn't claiming Australians invented the term, I was saying what is commonly used today.
Sony wouldn't mass produce Betamax porn, but that isn't what lost them the war. Betamax machines cost over 3x the price of VHS machines while VHS taped held twice as much content.
Thank you very much, that was brilliantly explained. 
Thank you very much.
Yes, thank you very much. 
So what you're saying is unless they can come beat you up, you will have no respect for their title?   Whether or not the title President refers to the the President of the most powerful country in the world or the President of Venezuela doesn't matter. Using President before their name and observing correct usage for the title is respect and common courtesy.
I could have sworn that I read that the mining pools use HTTP to communicate.  Am I wrong?  I appreciate you informing me without being an ass.
Interesting quote.  The way we talk about it, when discussing hiring folks, is whether someone actually has 10 years of experience or whether they've had the same year of experience 10 years in a row.
some may, but it is not necesary.
YOU'RE NOT MY SUPERVISOR!
Wrong:  http://archive.democrats.com/display.cfm?id=181  http://www.nytimes.com/2001/07/15/us/examining-the-vote-how-bush-took-florida-mining-the-overseas-absentee-vote.html  http://www.gregpalast.com/the-great-florida-ex-con-gamernhow-the-felon-voter-purge-was-itself-felonious/ 
Dear god, I've never laughed so hard at a comment on reddit. Very well played!
heuristics can also be used to prevent stealing of confidential data, even when you set restrictive permissions people typically can access lots of sensitive data, these tools can notice that someone starts copying or accessing large amounts of data like trying to take a copy off the network
Seems like you missed that phase too.
But like pitch correction in music (whose omnipresence I find despicable), DTP-software automatisms that enable the laymen, the nuclear bomb, and the wheel, it is something that will inevitably become part of our lives, because it doesn't have hard reasons against it like the reasons against human biological experiments.  It's unavoidable that it will at least to a small degree become part of our lives, maybe the technology will even become cheap so that it's in "every" home in 100 years.  How to deal with it when it's here, that's what should be our concern. Fearing it is not the right answer.
That's funny, because I have created plenty of stuff, protected. By copyright law.  Copyright law is != DRM. DRM prevents me of accessing things I legally should be able to. It is illegal to circumvent DRM, even if you have the right to access the underlying content.
Bathonians assemble? 
To the Brewhouse! 
Definitely cleared it up more at least. 
Reaction to the deep web? 
Don't like DRM? don't buy stuff that has DRM. You know it has DRM when you buy it. It's not a surprise. Thats like buying a frozen pizza, and then getting it home a bitching cause you have to cook it to eat it. You knew before you paid.  DRM IS = to PROTECTING Copyrighted stuff... because people do NOT respect Copyright.  Understand this... DRM wouldn't exist if people respected copyright. In fact it didn't exist until people started stealing... for a long time I never had to enter a code or login to anything to use software.  Then some really dumb people said "Hey you know what I can do? I can make an illegal COPY of this and give it to my friend for FREE" and then some even dumber people said "I can take this illegal copy, and put it on the internet so MILLIONS of people can steal it"  AND THAT is when DRM started.  So don't blame the creator for your issue, blame the jackasses who started the "Steal everything" movement. It is their fault you are inconvenienced. 
     How did you do it in white?
There's no real difference between the network level stuff.  Both can be "normal computer networks", assuming you class a wired Ethernet network connected into normal computers' Ethernet ports as a normal network.  NAS = You are presented with a network filesystem using some protocol, for instance CIFS. SAN = You are presented with a block device using some protocol, for instance iSCSI.
&gt; Don't like DRM? don't buy stuff that has DRM  So, if HTML5 contains DRM, what do you want me to do ? The iPhone contains DRM, what should I do ?  &gt; DRM IS = to PROTECTING Copyrighted stuff... because people do NOT respect Copyright.  Nope. DRM is about implementing Digital Restrictions. Those restrictions are then used for many other things. For instance, DRM prevents you to install unsigned apps on iOS. This prevents you to do stuff with a device you own that Apple decided you should not do, like replacing the built-in web browser.  You drank too much kool-aid, DRM does not prevent copyright infrigment, and never will (due to the analog hole). DRM is about implementing arbitrary mathematically unbreakable digital restrictions, extending control of the device/content makers in areas that the law doesn't support.  
As a language fan, I admire the work you've done. Well played, good sir/madam!
    So, if HTML5 contains DRM, what do you want me to do ? The iPhone contains DRM, what should I do ?  Don't like. Don't use.  Don't visit sites that use HTML5 DRM to protect stuff. Don't buy an iPhone. It is not up to you as the consumer to dictate how the creator makes their stuff and or protects it.  You CAN influence their choice by not using their creation if it has DRM. This is called "voting with your wallet". If you "vote" for things without DRM, and you have a lot of others voting the same as you... then the product without DRM will take control of the market over the products with DRM. This then influences the creator to not use DRM.  This is why Apple music no longer has DRM in it since 2009 they were influenced to change.  But YOU do not get to unilaterally say "I don't care what the person creating this says, I am going to do what I want."      DRM is about implementing Digital Restrictions.  Nope. DRM stands for Digital RIGHTS Management. To protect the rights of the creator of the product.  So iOS doesn't allowed unsigned Apps because part of the design of the iOS PRODUCT is to protect users from themselves. That is part of their product, apps are vetted by Apple to keep you secure. If you don't like it... don't use it. Go use Android. "Vote" with your wallet.  If nobody was buying iPhones because of DRM.... Apple would change their tune. A lot of people buy iPhones for this exact reason, they do not have to worry about grandma installing some random app that has ADWARE on it and brings her phone to a crushing halt.      You drank too much kool-aid, DRM does not prevent copyright infrigment, and never will (due to the analog hole).   You smoked too much hippie pot, and think everyone is going to sit by the campfire and sing songs and be nice to each other. Just because YOU wouldn't copy and give away... doesn't mean others will be so kind.  And DRM does work, just not 100% for everyone.  But a lot of people that WOULD have copied but can't because they don't know HOW to get around the DRM are actually prevented from stealing.  I know a ton of people who bought programs like MS Office because they tried to install from someone else's disc and the DRM required a license they don't have so they paid like they should. If the DRM wasn't there... they wouldn't have paid.  Just because you don't "Agree" philosophically... doesn't make you "right"... it just means you disagree. It is perfectly OK to disagree...it is not OK to simply do what you want because you disagree.
As usual, I missed the AMA.  But I had a weird and potentially embarassing or totally pointless question, and I apologize if Tim ever saw this and there's any weird truth to it. Does Tim have any idea who this guy is, who went on a drunken-like rant on the talk page for the Wikipedia article for the first web browser, WorldWideWeb?  We deleted it, and it's in yellow on the left side, but the guy claimed that Tim didn't do exactly what people credit him for.  lol.  wat.  I have no idea who this guy is, as we know only his IP address.  https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:WorldWideWeb&amp;diff=645490229&amp;oldid=645405649  And he elaborated here https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:72.94.237.148  Anyway, I proofread (verified the veracity of the text copy and of the citations) many Wikipedia articles about the origins of the Web.  I learned a lot, and remembered a lot, in the process. I'm grateful to everyone who was involved.
When did you realise that your invention was changing the world?
why did this receive so many downvotes. holy shit. Horizon is a fork of NXT with actual people representing themselves, none of that anon developer bullshit. Plus i would argue jl777 may have been maliciously attacking the HZ network by running a bunch of nodes, and attacking a node which resulted in theft of 4k usd worth of cryptocurrencies held in an asset similar to SuperNet (i lost 1 btc thanks to the hack) -- he is the only one with the resources, knowledge, and financial incentive to pull of an attack like this (financial incentive as in his eggs in NXT and doesnt want competition) - but it could also be a hacker group based in asia.. pretty sure bitnation was able to prove that you can do identification on the blockchain through proof of consensus.. Blocknet, horizon, and bitnation are working together, i highly doubt this is vaporware considering the recent uptrend on the markets. I think the idea or intention of adding bitnation to the team was to create a validation/trust system for asset issuers. 
[deleted]
I hadn't thought about that even. It is a shame no one is going to really see this. So many people so ignorant of the history of the internet and it's one of the most important inventions of all time.
Arab terrorists were the bogeyman since the '70s at least.    Did you ever see Back To The Future? The Libyans were the bad guys. Achille Lauro? Beirut Marine barracks bombing? Bombing of the World Trade Center? All of the airliner hijackings? 
And, it was a wholly accurate answer.
Holy crap, that was put back on as an active project and COMPLETED!?  I remember when he proposed that and had looked forward to it!  so cool
I didn't say terrorists didn't exist, but they weren't the *political* boogeyman they are today.  Before 1990 it was the communists, idk about the 90's, maybe school shootings?  
He was actually at the Cape for the first launch attempt, IIRC.  Haven't seen updates recently, but on Feb 25 it was [~100 days away](http://www.spaceflightinsider.com/missions/earth-science/satellite-gearing-take-epic-pictures-earth/) from L1.  Go little satellite, go!
Bingo.
SHA256 isn't actually encryption, it's a hashing algorithm.
Yo!
Buying the paid version sends the message that what the creator is doing works. That means they will continue to create versions of the app with ads, which will continue to ransack people's privacy. Maybe not yours, but that's not the point.
I normally use only apps from [F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/) for precisely this reason. Since the source code is available for everybody to see, it's a lot less likely that it's going to have suspicious stuff in it. F-Droid also build all their own APKs from the source rather than relying on pre-built APKs from the creator.  It goes the other way too, by the way - even creators who earn money from their creations can still come up with the most godawful ways of justifying continuing to advertise to you and extort you. See, for example, most games with microtransactions.
Robotic intelligences already exist, they even existed before organic life did according to the Gnostics' Nag Hammadi writings. Look up Archons.
that's NOT :ok.
You have a very polarized view of data and how it is used. You need to take a few marketing courses.
I said "eventually" for a reason.  If not businesses, than governments will do this.  Because national security or some shit.  
Once again, that is a very generalized view. Keep on trucking armchair warrior with your narrow world view and notions that the corporate world has the time or funds to spy on every individual. Market research is done via algorithm and looks for trends and patterns. I personally like targeted advertising online, because it presents ads that are relevant to me (or would, good job adblock). 
I know enough about data analytics to know that structured data is easy to parse and more and more efforts are being made to structure more data to gain more insights into consumers.  Unstructured data is a nightmare to get useful info from to my knowledge.  Insurance companies are already mining social media for info to help determine insurance premiums.  Telecoms already provide services that effectively let you stalk family members or dates by getting constant updates on their phone location.  It is naive to assume marketing analytic companies are the only ones that make use of personal data for ends that may adversely affect consumers.
The thing is, a lot of developers don't even offer paid versions, because the ad supported versions are often more profitable. (i.e. there is no way to buy a paid version of facebook that doesn't insert ads). Not buying paid versions sends the message that paid versions don't work and ad supported versions are the only way to make money. Ideally if there is an alternative app it would be better to buy that one, but if apps that have both paid and ad supported versions don't see profit from the paid versions, then they might stop offering them all together, and that becomes a problem when there isn't an alternative.
Women definitely get harassed more, but it's still a valid point to say that everyone needs to respect everyone, instead of making it about gender. 
Its definitely valid to say that but what I said is also valid. The issue isn't being made 'about gender' by teaching people about the issue, its by the people propogating the behavior.
I just think it'd be more valid if he had used gender neutral language, is my point. It's true that female harassment happens more frequently, but the goal here should be to treat everyone with respect, which is what I think we should be aiming for instead of reducing the burden for only one sex.
It's like a series of tubes that in turn consists of a series of tubes... I'm late, aren't I?
Actually it's not the alt text, it's the title text. See the code here:      &lt;img src="//imgs.xkcd.com/comics/devotion_to_duty.png" title="The weird sense of duty really good sysadmins have can border on the sociopathic, but it&amp;#39;s nice to know that it stands between the forces of darkness and your cat blog&amp;#39;s servers." alt="Devotion to Duty" /&gt;    
There is no system to proof sex over the internet, nor zero-knowledge proof that can be used. A photo or a video or a type of writing obviously proof nothing...  So your question is stupid, annoying girl.
[deleted]
