Hi there,i've joined CS50 but how can i find friends to discuss topics &amp; p-sets ???
I submitted pset 0 a few weeks ago but still haven't got an email with my results.  What should I do ?
Thanks. That gives me hope for my projects.
Hi /u/Ajpennster, your quick question got a whole blog post!  http://blog.zamyla.com/2015/03/rationing-pi-and-real-talk-about-math-for-girls-2/
Woah! Awesome! So much for a quick question. It was a great read. I left a comment there. :)
I have recently started the CS50x Course and must say I'm amazed at how many give-aways there are on that stage. Are there plans to bring give-aways to the CS50x Students? I've become addicted to those Network-able Lightbulbs and those stress balls could come in handy right now! 
Whats CS50x3?
This years version of the course. Its probably the third time they do it on edx. I think the one starting on january 2016 on edx should be called cs50x4
Got it, thanks. I enrolled today. :-) But still in 2 minds as to get on with it on go for courseera or udacity!
Well i dont know if u can do cs50 not on edx, and i wouldnt advice you to try multiple online courses at the same time. Cs50 is quite demanding so stick to just doing that and when ur done u can go look for other things. Best of luck
Courseera is offering CS 101 from Stanford and Udacity has it's own course. These two are recommended by Google. Hence the confusion. :-(((  http://www.google.com/edu/tools-and-solutions/guide-for-technical-development/index.html
edX student here!  I am under the assumption that if I was to take cs50 at Harvard, my code would be marked for style, succinctness and flexibility as well as its ability to return proper responses. Whether or not this is true, as a programmer walking back through the basics how can I know if my code is efficient in these ways? In other words, how can I know if there was a better, possibly faster method for computation?  Side note: I love the course, its availability and its interactive grading. Not trying to bash y'all for something those of us do it for free maybe don't get. I am a radio astronomer utilising huge data sets and speed is a problem.  Edit: spelling mistake, got a little too excited
Do you believe that the concept and basic programming should be taught to kids?
Hi CS50,  I'm studying computer science (in part due to your fantastic course) and I'm currently developing an app for online learning. What I'd like to know is:  Can I embed your lecture videos in my app? With full credit going to you guys of course.   Thanks
What are the job opportunities for international students?
Hi guys, thanks for an amazing course, I'm just finishing up pset8 and have loved every minute.  Do you have any recommendations for follow on courses, materials or activities, particularly for those of us who have been inspired to take this further and eventually become full time developers? Thanks again!
Vim or Emacs?
[deleted]
Hi,   This sounds like something that might have been asked in the past, but: Why C language?? I am doing CS50 through edx and I am loving the challenge. I see that most other MOOC focus on Python to teach the basics of programming, so I was surprised that you picked C. The pre-configured appliance is great, but if you have the spirit of configure your own tools, then the headers, linkings, compilers and all that can give you lots of great headaches... It's pretty exciting and adventurous, but I am not sure if that's the reason why you picked it...   Anyways, congratulations! The lectures are great and engaging. Although they are pretty long, to follow them feels lighter, easier and more entertaining than to follow 10 minutes videos in other MOOCs...
If you had unlimited access to any number of the best programers in the world, and unlimited resources to support their work....What program would you have them write?
Any plans to offer Introduction to Computer Science Part II? I would love to take it. I guess it would contain more about networks and Object Oriented Programming.
I am currently taking CS50 course online, something that me and my friend noticed is that the video production level is rather low. What I mean is that a decent amount of video content is talking about things that only apply to people at Harvard taking the class, or answering questions that are only about being there in the class. A lot of that content seems like it could easily be cut out and not missed at all by the people like me who are watching the videos to take the online class.  Other times someone that has given the mic to someone else keeps talking and you can't really hear them all that well, [example](http://youtu.be/HSyvbr8pSnM?t=39m45s).   I enjoy taking the class online, but when I work a full time job and have other responsiblities it can be hard to sit down and watch hours of videos when at times it feels like I'm watching content that doesn't contribute anything to the learning experience.  My question is, is there any plans to increase the production level and do more editing to make the videos more focuses to the online community? 
[deleted]
What do you guys like to do in your spare time? What are your hobbies?
Hi guys! I'm a beginner in the world of programming and computer science but what i have learned so far from you (from cs50x) is making me love programming ever more!   **A question**: What tip would you give to someone who is beginning but wants to be a professional programmer in the future?
[deleted]
I took CS50 this fall Semester and loved it. It has been my favorite course so far. I have two questions.  What has been your favorite part of teaching and administering the course?  Also what is the best way to learn emacs? 
Hey! What is the coolest cs50's final project that you have seen?  Thanks! :)
Hi David, how are you? I hope well, I'm from Colombia, my name is Elvis and every year I see the conference CS50 and surrounding things I learned to program exponentially thanks to you for that part THANKS !.  MY QUESTION IS, What is the accuracy of a byte data type in java?
Hi - Can you post some hints for Mario? I realize it requires an embedded loop, but I just can't think it through. (Should it be VERY hard?)    T*H*A*N*K*S for a great course!
Hello David Malan!   Oh wow. I didnt think Id ever get to thank you one on one. This is amazing. CS50 is by far the best MOOC out there and what you do (and how you do it) has had such a profound effect on me, I cant even begin to tell you! I came across this while revisiting programming a couple of years after college and you have made me look at it in an all new light.  So, thank you for that. I am so very grateful to you and your team for opening up your resources to those who cant access them for whatever reasons. This is what learning and more importantly, teaching should be about, ideally. And CS50 in itself, btw, is no less than a piece of art. Props to Rob for being the most entertaining TA to have ever walked the earth. :D   My question is about the way this whole course is conducted. Where I come from, there is no way in hell a technical and a fairly difficult subject like this could be taught in such an interesting and effective way. Do you have any tips for a volunteer teacher with much less resources to conduct a course on math/programming? 
Also, am I allowed to show folks CS50 to explain concepts in the following environments:      - Tutoring (for free)   - Hackathons / Group get togethers, non profit.   - Business presentations. (not making a profit on the sniplets I would use, but it is to show clients core concepts in a simple manner.)
This would be awesome.
Hey guys!  First off, thanks so much for all the work you all have clearly put into producing CS50/CS50x. It's so engaging and well-done. I've taken some other CS courses on different platforms and have never seen anything like this. My girlfriend and I watch lectures together after work as we go through the course and I don't think we would be able to do that if the quality of the production wasn't so high.   I have a couple questions for David: - At what point did you start thinking about opening up CS50 like this? I mean, to what extent did you factor in the fact that thousands of people outside of Harvard would be using the materials when you prepared the course in its current format? - Any chance of a CS61X type course as a follow-on (or at least opening up the material)? Because that would be flippin awesome... :)    Also for Rob/Zamyla/pumpkin(sorry don't know your name!):  - Just curious where you see your cs careers going? Do you see yourselves staying in academia or are there other directions that interest you?
First, I want to say thank you. CS50 literally changed my life. I'm 3 years out of high-school, and after taking cs50, I'm meeting with a college counselor to enroll tomorrow as a computer science major. Thank you all. Now for my question.  1. What do all of you TFs plan to do after you graduate? Go on to masters/PhD, or where do you want to work?  2. Any advice to an incoming freshman concerning computer science and what you wish you'd have known?   Thank you again!
First I would like to say to /u/davidjmalan that I enjoy your videos on youtube so much, and that you are a great teacher.  I recently have decided to change my major to CS, because I enjoy programming and seem to pick up on it quite well. The only thing that is making me nervous is that often a CS degree entails higher level maths. Is it a good idea to major in CS if I struggle somewhat with calculus, etc?   
I really like to start from the beginning so... what is the meaning of CS50?
CS50 and CS75 has changed my life. I would not be where I am today or getting job offers I have been had it not been for your help. Moreover, I would not have the intellectual curiosity to pursue computer science and problem solving in the same way had I not watched your courses.  My question: What next? Will you and the team keep improving CS50 and also publish courses on more advanced topics?  Thanks for everything! You have made the world of difference in one persons life.
Hi, thanks for doing this AMA!   What advice do you have for a programming enthusiast working in the field of finance/economics who wants to kind of amalgamate the two for efficiency purposes?  I am sorry for not being more specific but I guess what I am trying to ask is how I can use my interest in programming as a catalyst in the performance of my job as a financial analyst. 
Hello Guys!  We're a bunch of students interested in bringing the coolness of programming in our university!  What advice would you guys have to foster a hacker community in our university? As in students developing real world apps for fun. We really just want to inject this idea that programming and developing is fun and cool (which seems to have been killed off due to bureaucracy of our university).  We're holding hackatons and training camps to help do this. What more can you guys suggest we do?  Thanks for the awesome course!
where can I get a "I took CS50" t-shirt? I'm not from US
Hi, I am from Myanmar. I think this course is very interesting and beneficial for me. I want to share it with my friends and family. But Internet connection is an issue here. Is it OK to download the courseware content and host it on a local WiFi network and allow others to download? Will I be violating any copyrights? 
Why do you teach C instead of something like Python, which is arguably simpler for beginners?
Till now, all the questions I asked you were highly related to Computer Science.  Today, I wanna ask you, how do you manage the enormous amounts of stuff you have ? I mean like handling the CS50 FB Group, online edX course, the on-campus course ... So do you follow any particular books or methods in planning along your day and making it productive or any online tools ?
I just started this on edX and it looks great. What do you suggest is the best way to go after I am done with CS50? Meaning should I plunge into advanced programming courses or look for the general applications since its a little difficult to get into the programming industry without an appropriate degree and all? 
I'm 45 and diving deeper into computer programming. Do you know of any inspiring stories about successful programmers who started later in life?
Hello, I've started CS50 just a month ago. Can you suggest me how can I do well in the Problem sets of this course? I know almost nothing about programming. How can I improve my programming skill?
Why isn't there much of Object Oriented Programming concepts in the introduction to computer science course? Don't you feel that OOP is not an elementary concept? 
Possibly in the next couple of years! This year's offering will not be, though. There're a lot of details that need to be worked out.
Hi guys! First, thank you foe this AMA session. I am curious to know how many hours a week give or take you work on CS50x? And also, since I see /u/davidvidmalan and /u/rob-cs50 commenting/answering to facebook questions/comments, how many hours a day (if any) do you actually manage to sleep?
Vim 10000%
You can always skip ahead.
Great work on CS50 - enjoyed it very much on edX.  Why are sorting algorithm still taught in CS? Hardly anybody would ever write a sort function, so why spend so much time on it?
What are some things you wish you'd known before you started digging into computer science?  What other online coursework would you recommend?  If you weren't teaching cs50 what would you be doing?  What are the best jobs in technology that cs50 prepares people for, or starts them on the road toward?  What's the best way to go about getting those awesome jobs?  Has anyone thought about setting up something like Duolingo or Rosetta Stone for computer languages?  Would something like that make a good "final project" for cs50?  Thanks for all the awesome, people like the cs50 staff make the world a better place!
My question was similar, so I deleted it; yours is worded better.   But, yeah, that'd be wonderful. 
Can you elaborate on the difference in experience between Harvard students on campus and those who take it through EdX?  I realize everyone watches the same videos, but how do you make a class that is challenging for students at Harvard that is also possible to the general public?  Thanks,  
I imagine that we'd be okay with it, but it might be best to email heads@cs50.harvard.edu with more details about who you are and what exactly the app will be.
I've registered for CS50 twice and never started/finished the coursework. Is there some way that you can come over to my house and make me study? If not, can I come to Harvard? I live really close to Cambridge. 
Woooooooo!! Rob has spoken! I've put my eggs in the right basket!!! (Started learning vim just yesterday too!)
Yes, please do!
What is the 80/20 analysis of computer science? In other words, what should a beginner focus on to push through the minutia of computer science? 
Hi guys!  What are some of your favorite scratch programs you've seen, and do you have any of your own you'd like to share?
What course would you recommend taking after CS50x to continue developing CS skills?
Hello World!! I'm taking CS50x3 and wants to be a software developer. What are career opportunities after CS50?
Same question, 34 year old male, trying to move out of IT Administration.
Most of you guys use OSX. Is there a reason, like easy access to a unix terminal or is this nothing but a coincidence?
In a world in which many of our computers literally have no user-serviceable parts, do you think that people are seeing less of a reason to actually understand how their computers work? 
I'm a postdoc at Harvard taking the course--actually met David briefly last night when I came for the on-campus section.  How did CS50 become the big production it is now? And do you think other introductory courses in other fields could benefit from your approach, or is there something unique to CS that allows you to do this?
How is Prof David J Malan with all of you outside CS50?
Do Zamyla's walkthrough.  I did it yesterday and go to /r/cs50 for help, if you need it.
I've never attempted to learn code or any computer science. I want to design a very professional website for my company, then potentially go into app building and other software related business exploits. Is there a great code language o could learn and get good at to accomplish this?
Thank for your answer.  Oh, and nice haircut !! :D
Thank you CS50 team, for making such a fantastic course available to all.  My only dream at the moment is to go somewhere world-class like Cambridge, Oxford, or London, (I live in England) to learn computer science. But, here is my situation:  I did well in STEM subjects at school until my final year, where I lost any motivation to do anything and barely passed any exams, and I'm now studying with the Open University (distance learning) on a path that leads to MPhys Physics with Computer Science at University of Sheffield (it's called [OpenPlus](http://www.open.ac.uk/choose/openplus/)). Which I am thrilled with, I'm grateful for any opportunity - but I am still ambitious and I'm aiming as far/high as possible.  My question: What can I do to go that far, that doesn't involve high school since I'm now 20? What would you recommend I do outside of current study?
Vim for me. 'Tis what we were taught when I took CS50 myself in 1996!
[deleted]
What do you think is the most difficult topic in CS50?  And why? 
spreadtshirt.net
So the question that I imagine many people here would love to know What's next for us? I had the most wonderful time last summer working on cs50, and then helping people on r/cs50. I played around a little bit with Ruby on Rails, and a little bit with Python, but I'm not at all fluent in either. Are there any other courses or specific programming languages you would point me to?
CS51 (the course many Harvard students take after CS50) pretty much forces you to use emacs because of a plugin for OCaml (http://tuareg.forge.ocamlcore.org/). It's so painful having to make the switch to emacs, that for a while I was trying to make my own hackish replacement for vim (https://github.com/rbowden91/ocaml-vim). Warning: that is not actually a good vim plugin in any way.
haha thanks!!
After CS50 ? How to Connect you people ?
I would take it!
I am a college student in a college of comp sci, and by coincidence I just joined cs50 to brush up last night!  While going through the course description video, I was surprised at how applicable some of your exercises were.   1. How was the development of the curriculum?   1. What were the stages of development and how do justify putting in/leaving out what you did?  3. How much thought was put into the implementation of the 'book' knowledge into real life applications like those featured in the intro video?
Hello, I am current taking cs50x3 and have already done some of the coursework last year during November-December. I'm taking these courses in order to not only refresh what I've learned many years ago in High School about computer programming, but also to learn new things and transition into a career in Computer Science. What should I be doing/look to do after completing this course in order to be able to break into the tech industry?
Can you guys recommend any good Vim tutorials?
Hi /u/davidjmalan, /u/rob-cs50, /u/zamyla-cs50, /u/pumpkin50 &amp; CS50. Thanks for doing this AMA.  1. Does **professional certifications** (CCNA/RHCE/CompTIA etc..) while being a CS undergrad makes sense?   2. Should we concentrate on a **specific technology** or make ourselves flexible?  3. How can we prepare for **competitive programming**?
Did any of you think that the **edX** version of CS50 would have such impact on the world and personal lives like allowing some of our classmates to get a job?
[deleted]
Till now, all the questions I asked you were highly related to Computer Science. Today, I wanna ask you, how do you manage the enormous amounts of stuff you have ? I mean like handling the CS50 FB Group, online edX course, the on-campus course ... So do you follow any particular books or methods in planning along your day and making it productive or any online tools ? 
[deleted]
What's a good way to wrap your head around CS math (Discrete Structures) and when did it just click for you (at least for the most part)?
Hi David, I'm just completed CS50 in December 2014. I really enjoyed the course as it taught both theoretical concepts of computer science and put those concepts into practice.   My questions is a little bit out of the blue. But does Harvard have any plans for hosting a Hackathon for Harvard and non-harvard students sometime in the future? (something similar to HackMIT)
[deleted]
Thank you for your answer! I feel somehow glad to use the same software than the CS50 team.
Hi,  I just wanted to use this opportunity to thank you guys. I took first edition of CS50x (what was it, 2 years ago?) and it was a MAJOR breakthrough in my life.  Back then I was unemployed and with a worthless diploma in my hand. Now, not only did you give me basic knowledge (I mean I would definitely not call it 'basic' back then...) but also motivation. Lots of it actually. You made me want to pursue this field, to experiment, to learn new things, to try, to fail, to try again and eventually to succeed.  Since then I took many other MOOCS, landed a first job in IT, obtained postgraduate diploma from renowned university (at least in my country), changed my job for a better paid one, obtained international certification, got promoted...   Hard to believe it's only been 2 years. Hard to believe it all started with a single click: 'enrol'.  Thanks again guys - you are life-changers. Keep up a good work!     
[deleted]
Besides the great material and teaching style, it seems like much of the popularity of CS50 is due to terrific branding and marketing. (This includes high quality recordings, great photography, "I am CS50.", very nice website, etc.)  David, can you speak a little more about this? What can a student group learn from CS50 to increase their presence on campus and gain a following?  Thank you for all your work!
Computer Science and the class number, 50, probably just how Harvard used to / still calls their classes.
I viewed the walkthrough twice and am still stuck.
What is the programming notion in non OOP programming that students usually struggle the most(on average)?
[deleted]
Hi, I have some doubt regarding the hacker1/credit.c problem.   I don't understand why i am getting this error message  :( identifies 5105105105105100 as MASTERCARD  \ expected output, but not "INVALID\n" :( identifies 4111111111111111 as VISA  \ expected output, but not "INVALID\n" :( identifies 4012888888881881 as VISA  please explain how 5105105105105100, 4111111111111111, 4012888888881881 is valid ?
1) I've already started on my PhD track here at Harvard now that I graduated! So I'll probably be preoccupied with that for a bit.  2) Hmmm... this probably isn't great advice for you since you already have intentions with CS, but maybe for some other incoming freshmen: don't extrapolate from your high school experiences with computer science what CS will be like in college. Sure yeah, there will be CS courses that are harder or more theoretical in college. But for me, CS in high school (I took AP CS A as a senior) was wildly unstructured, and it turned me off from CS for a while, such that I didn't think that I'd be majoring in it until shortly before it was time to declare majors at the end of my sophomore fall.
[deleted]
Unless I'm mistaken, the CS50 supersections aren't included in the edX program, but are available on the CS50.tv site, though they're hard to follow because you often cannot hear student questions and the audio is low. These seem important. Can you get through CS50 without them?
Thx Moter8 :)
A question to Rob. What's your filed of research, interest in CS? 
This is an AMA  :) yOu should ask that ont he regular **cs50** reddit or facebook 
Hello, i'm a startup founder and beginner in programming. I would like to test my value proposition by quickly building raw prototypes (like a barebone social network, a web-based app, etc.) and iterate on them according to the end user feedback.  What would be the best language to learn in order to do this?  Thanks.
CS50 is the best course I ever took online, thanks for sharing it with the world!  There was just one problem with the online lectures: the CS50 stress ball. I really want one! Any chance of getting those to the CS50 store?
You can, but then you have to constantly skip and monitor it. I don't see why they can't just make some simple edits and remove a chunk of useless content.
In that same vein, I am planning on teaching Scratch to my 5 year old. Showed him once for about 15 minutes. He seems to love it. Jumping the gun?
Hello, thanks a lot for doing this AMA! I recently took it upon myself to study computer science, thanks to CS50. It blew my mind!  **Question:** If a CS50 *MOOC (edX) student* writes a paper/thesis, will he get any assistance from CS50 team? Such as review, guidance, supervision etc?
When watching the lectures, most of the students seem really on point. Do you find most of your students have lots of previous programming experience? In C or C++ in particular?
What is CS50's team favourite movie?
[deleted]
Hello everyone , my name is Avishek arora and i'm a sophomore in  computer science major at noida international university. Firstly i want to give my deepest thanks and appreciation to professor David j. malan and all the team members of CS50. I take CS50 last year and it literally change the way i think about computer science and now i want to give what i learn to the society. My question is that - is it possible to have office hours and hackthons on different places in india to encourage students who are not very familiar with the concepts of computer science i want to give them an idea and help them. is CS50 wants to expands its roots to india?. any future plans to create branches in different countries?.
What should I do after finishing CS50 to continue on the same path? Is there any other courses of Harvard out there??  Thanks Professor!!
I think a big part of it is the manual memory management, and along with that the fact that the instructions in C map pretty well to what is going on underneath the hood. Sure, it makes things a bit more difficult, but if you can understand what you're doing in C, then you have a pretty good understanding of what the computer is ACTUALLY doing, and moving on to something like Python should be relatively straightforward. Consider the reverse direction, and it's not so easy (if you know Python, you probably aren't going to be a natural at manual memory management in C).  Plus, knowledge in C is expected for MANY of the follow-up CS courses at Harvard.
What do you think about the movie Ivory Tower and how it portrayed CS50?
So glad to hear, /u/NonBannedAccount! Thanks for the kind note.  1. I'll defer to the team as to their own plans, but, personally, I worked for three years after college (teaching high school math, working for a wireless startup, and teaching part-time at Tufts University), after which I returned for a PhD program. 1. I'd try to take some courses quite outside of CS to see what other areas pique your interest too! Among my own favorites (for which I didn't leave nearly enough time!) were [Anthropology 1010: The Fundamentals of Archaeological Methods &amp; Reasoning](http://www.registrar.fas.harvard.edu/courses-exams/courses-instruction/anthropology), [Dramatic Arts 101: Introduction to Theatre](http://www.registrar.fas.harvard.edu/courses-exams/courses-instruction/dramatic-arts), [Latin Aa: Beginning Latin](http://www.registrar.fas.harvard.edu/courses-exams/courses-instruction/classics), and [Physics 15a: Introductory Mechanics and Relativity](http://www.registrar.fas.harvard.edu/courses-exams/courses-instruction/physics). And take a course on [operating systems](http://www.registrar.fas.harvard.edu/courses-exams/courses-instruction/computer-science). :)
Hello Dr. Malan, Zamyla, Rob and the all of the other TFs! I was at the St. Louis hackathon last year and saw you were coming back! Plus the office hours here are greatly appreciated. Several questions: 1) Do we have to "RSVP" for office hours? 2) Will CS75 come back to EDx? 3) If you were "advising" or "counseling" CS50x students, what would you recommend for a follow-up class? 
How to have fun with C ? !
Any hints for dates of the hackathons? I really want to attend one!
Crazy question:  How did you guys (and girls, of course!) decide to become CS50 staff?  What do you enjoy most about it, and what do you wish could be improved?
I am just starting in CS50 and looking to be challenged as well as learning  throughout the course.  My question is which compiler will we use for C?
Indeed! I used to C+x C+s everything after I learned emacs! :D I actually 'finished' CS51 psets last year after CS50 too. (the pdfs used to be available online). Seeing it deleted, I kinda feel bad right now thinking about it, as it might mean that it's not meant for public use and I did so anyway :( (https://learninglabber.wordpress.com/learning-projects/cs51/) 
I have to disagree with you there.  One of the things that has impressed me about CS50 is the high quality of the videos.  As background, I majored in Ed, am currently working in providing professional development both in person and online, and am also working on getting my masters in Instructional Design.  I know a little about what's out there, and I've always thought that the quality of CS50, both in content and materials has been superb.
Yeah, if we want to delve deeper into it, the fact that it's 2 digits means it's mostly an undergraduate course, and the fact that it starts with a 5 vaguely places it in the "Programming Languages" subfield of CS here at Harvard. Something like CS61, starting with a 6, would be an undergraduate course in the "systems" subfield.  Or maybe a different answer to "what is the meaning of CS50": 42
[deleted]
Officially, we love them all equally. :)
I can't relate to complaining about the awesome opportunity to take this harvard (!) class for free, but: the current versions of the scripts are timed, you just have to scan it and skip to the right time at the video via the embedded link.
[deleted]
Same question here - Im 39 and pivoting into coding - any advice on how to get my foot in the door?
Is there any *Rule of Thumb* you guys live by?
Hello guys  my name is Ayman ,i m from morocco.First of all i d like to thank all of you for your great work.Then i d like to ask you is there any chance for us students here in morocco to get an intership in usa, i am a computer engineering student in cadi ayad university,,and to get an intership in IT in the states would be a huge add to my cv and would be a great opportunity to get more chance of getting a job? thank you.  
At least in my experience, I only got really interested in Computer Science after CS50, which made me experiment with a language like C that made me able to understand how the language actually interacts with the machine (playing around with memory addresses, malloc, etc). With common higher level languages like Python I was able to write simple programs but couldn't really get any closer to understanding how computers work.
What is you're take on functional programming vs object oriented programming?
What are the chances of  CS75 being offered in '15, a refreshed version?
South African edx student here! Thanks for creating a course that entertains as much as it does teach!   My quick question: Do you see the job market for Computer Science graduates becoming saturated due to the rapid increase in enrollments?
Do you have any advice for an aspiring computer scientist in the process of getting a bachelor's degree?
It may be "useless" to you, but not others.  How many complaints would they get if they edited it down and people online felt they weren't getting the same course as those on Campus? You can go straight to the Shorts and Walkthroughs if you like, but I at least loved it all.
Nope, don't feel bad! Totally fine to have worked through everything. I used to direct people to those materials online, although the videos of lecture weren't available to the public.
I love playing guitar and cooking Brazilian food!
Do drop heads@cs50.harvard.edu a note too, as /u/rob-cs50 suggests, though in general the course's content can be indeed be used per a [BY-NC-SA license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/)!
Did Dramatic Arts 101 helped you with your way you talk and move during your lectures?
Why PHP ?? Most learning websites teach PYTHON or .NET for web development. Is Python or .NET better/more advance than PHP??
And also Prof. David posted a detailed note ( comment ) on the same question on the FB Group of CS50, if I remember.
hello there , if you want to improve your coding skills you are in the right place all you have to do is to follow all the course's material and be positive. if you stuck in any problem set just don't worry and don't hesitate to ask for suggestions and help from the community and it'll be the matter of time that you'll convert into a developer if you give it your time and patience. all the best :) 
I think I thought of a good question!  Technology makes life easier for people.  With computers I think the greatest thing we have gained is the ability to communicate and share ideas at great speeds.  What do you guys think we can do with the technology we have to make life better, easier, and affordable for all human beings?  What can we build to promote self sustainability/sufficiency and community sustainability/sufficiency.  Hell, maybe world sustainability/sufficiency if we get good at it.
what's the link to the appliance?
At my county college, people who want to teach or become nurses have to take a computer programming course. Most choose VB, as it's recommended as the "easiest."      Do you feel that at some point, a computer course is inappropriate for some fields? That it's used more as a "weeding out tool" rather then an actual skill?
You guys are so awesome.
Thx for answer, 42 is a nice one!
[deleted]
Any plans on making CS51 open to public to complete the Introduction to CS in both parts?
Break it down.  Think about what you need the program to do and then work on it one section at a time.  If you don't know how to get the section you're on working, you can research each specific problem.  Once you've programmed the step you're on to your satisfaction, then move on to the next step.
I wanna thanks and congratulate the whole team of CS50, you guys are doing a great job . question          - in my country people tend to value degree and diplomas ,  so after            completing the course , can i say - i have a diploma in computer science            from  "Harvard University" in my resume ?
I used a PC up until my senior year. For me, my first use of OSX was because of a CS course that had iOS programming (which requires OSX). But now, I don't know if I could give up the terminal. Sure, I used to use Powershell in Windows, but it's just not the same. I also find the trackpad on Macs infinitely nicer (scrolling, gestures, etc.) than any one that I've used on a PC.
See http://store.cs50.net/!
I just want to thank professor David. You are just an incredible man and the best professor I have ever met.The whole Cs50 staff are amazing people. So, I have a question ( it's a little bit long but here we go :  I always had a passion in CS but my family wanted me to get into Engineering college ( yeah, the situation is bad :D ) Cs50 was the only way to pursue in the field I always wanted to get into and it really made me think to leave my college :D so my question is :   A degree in computer science is a must or is it just about how much knowledge do you have ?
/u/davidjmalan,/u/rob-cs50 ,/u/zamyla-cs50,/u/pumpkin50:  Again thank you for this session :) What is the **programming language** you personally use the most as I assume it may not be C?
Do you guys consider folks who complete lessons faster then the scheduler "cheaters" in any way?  *(Note: Most of this is due to experience in coding and being familiar with C++ on a community college level.)*
I'm afraid won't know for at least a few more weeks!
If you're watch it for free, can you really expect them to make those edits? Besides, the videos are also for those students taking the course, if not primarily, to whom that content is relevant.
[deleted]
I missed that Imad_Sawal, but thx anyway. 
1.Why there are no postmortems for CS50x? 2.Why the hacker edition is not graded for CS50x students?  I know that "why" questions are more likely to be hated!, so excuse me for that. :D  I &lt;3 CS50
Hey CS50, is it ok to take E-50 at HES after CS50x? They are almost the same as I understand, will I need to submit the same psets and Final Project? Could not hold myself from starting edX course already since next E-50 is way too long to wait for) Thanks!
The sections, and especially the supersection, were not specifically oriented toward an online audience, yes. And even though we're asked, we tend to be really bad at repeating what students ask or say (me in particular. I'm horrible at remembering to do it). The rest of the sections are likely better than that first example super-section.  That said, all of the shorts, walkthroughs, post mortems, David's example walkthroughs, and more were separately recorded in a studio specifically with online audiences in mind. And the lectures also shouldn't really suffer from these problems?
He gives the CS50 course online for free at edX : https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x !
Draw the desired output on a piece of paper, then count spaces and hashes. Create a formula on what each line is generated of. Then convert this formula into code.
Hey guys!  If you were forced to choose between either 1) boarding a spaceship bound for Mars, where the trip would take 15 years and your estimated chance of survival was 50% or 2) using a teleportation device that would scan the contents of your body (i.e. the location of every single atom, carbon here, nitrogen there, etc...) on Earth, then destroy you and instantly reassemble a new version of "you" on Mars, which would you take?  Also, what do you think [this person](http://33.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lf5fiaI80D1qcyh4vo1_1280.gif) is saying?
We would love that! As long as you don't monetize the course materials, you won't violate any copyrights:  the course's content can be indeed be used per a [BY-NC-SA license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/)  [edit: added our license]
Hi! Cs50 This is Meeravali shaik.As a computers student i want to know which technologies should i learn ?and which will help me to get a job in top mnc's like GOOGLE,AMAZON .....etc
what is (one of) the most 'aha!' technical moments you have had with coding? 
You might want to take a peek at two of [CS50's seminars](https://manual.cs50.net/seminars/)!  * [Vim: Speed and Power at your Fingertips] (https://manual.cs50.net/seminars/#vim_speed_and_power_at_your_fingertips) * [Vim](https://manual.cs50.net/seminars/#vim)
AMA - ask me anything
Are you sure these aren't on youtube? There's a LOT of content there.
&gt;prefer Ubuntu over everything.  Yeeah probably not.
Disagree. I love **all** of the videos, i.e. lectures, the shorts, walkthroughs, etc. I watch every one of them, and then read some ebooks/articles to make sure I know it well enough to move on.
So mainly the difference between the choice of OSX vs. some other OS with a terminal like Ubuntu is the quality of the physical device and the specific use for iOS programming?
First of all, I would like to thank professor David Malan and the CS50 Staff for this incredible course...  My question is, how could this course be useful for a 15 years old student, and could it make a difference in someone's career?  Thanks again :)
Hi everyone,  I am a finance major and I am currently taking CS50. I am amazed by the content, the way of teaching, the supporting videos, the problem sets ... My question is: What programming language is best for finance applications such as Monte Carlo Simulations?
First of all: Thank's for all your work and compassion! I am looking forward to buy me a nerd glass and a cs50 t-shirt after finishing the course.  Question: Are there any plans to offer something like hoffice hours / hackathons etc. abroad? Like in Germany? :)
is there any other CS course rather then CS50 of harvard university which is available online for free? 
And what is /r/cs50  ???
I am very interested in these questions. I have 3 CompTIA certs.      Do Comptia, Cisco, and other popular certs actually matter in the field of programming?      Also, I see businesses that hire people with a Bachelors of Anything  from Anywhere into a programming position. Would a cheapo Bachelors from a Community College get me farther then a CS50 Certificate?  *(Note: I know a guy who has a Bachelors of Art in Marketing and Graphic Design who works as a front end developer for a big company. He makes $82k a year but had to teach himself the computer science parts of the job. Don't get me wrong, he is good. My point is the word Bachelors was more important than his programming resume)*
Dear /u/davidmalan , /u/rob-cs50 and Staff members: I saw a link to a page showing different cities from the US and also throughout the Wrold, and I wanted to ask : What does it take to make you guys pick a city (France is fine by me! ) for **Hackathons** and other CS50 events?
thx for answer! Unfortunately there's no shipping to my country :(  
I saw it done in Excel actually
Good question. My younger sisters are 8 and 11, and I'm already getting questions about why I haven't started teaching them basic programming. On one hand, they seem sooo young and I don't know if I could keep their attention, but on the other I do think that the sort of logic that it teaches could really be important in everything they do in the future. I'll probably encourage them to do some Scratch programming soon.
What's wrong about Ubuntu? Which OS is used the most among programmers? 
Thanks for the kind words! Afraid we don't have an efficient way to distribute them via post, whereas Spreadshirt and Zazzle take care of the logistics of apparel via [store.cs50.net](http://store.cs50.net). Someday, hopefully!
[deleted]
This is awesome timing, I just started a few days ago, after having  attempted this course last year.  I had to stop because things got super busy, but I know have more time on my hands, so I figured I'd give it another shot.  I finished both Week 0 lectures, and I must say that I feel they're even better than they were last year.  With that in mind, I understand you're going to combine with Yale, do you anticipate this affecting those that are in edx all that much?      Also, I noticed earlier that you have "supersection" videos, but I'm not sure how they compliment the course because there appears to be only 8.  Also, have you heard of anyone having problems with win10 and Virtualbox?  It's pretty much wrecked my day, so I'm going to give VMware a shot and hopefully that'll be better.
http://www.reddit.com/r/cs50  It's the subreddit for the cs50 course your taking.  You can communicate your problems and concerns there.
Thank you dear Teachers who arranged such a valuable course for us.  1.Sir, I just finished my 4 years graduation on Textile Engineering. Could i join in CS50 program-me?  2.If i could, so, How i do the classes ?  3.And when should i make the projects to submit?  Thanks Mostafa  
They are on youtube (linked via the .tv site) but they're not really produced with an external audience in mind like the regular lectures. The student questions, which often drive the sections, are not mic'd so you can't hear them. Sometimes you can't read the screen. They are hard to follow. 
I am an EdX student from Brazil, can I go to CS50 fair?
5 might actually be perfect! In my other comment, I mention that I don't know if I could keep my (slightly) older sisters' attentions. But if you could get him really into it at 5, even if he can't accomplish a lot yet, then maybe he'll keep that excitement as he gets older and better able to do things.
What are your favorite books?      *(I'm interested philosophy, self help, etc. Non computer related  books are a big plus.)*
Okay, no worries thanks anyway! Ill be watching the internets with intent!
Congrats on getting on track for your PhD! And thanks for the response. Have a great life!
I'll defer to the team for their personal favorites, but officially I suppose we recommend these, given that we connect them to material in lectures!  * [A Christmas Story](http://youtu.be/uvMLfSQrHKE) * [Office Space](http://youtu.be/_IwzZYRejZQ) * [Spaceballs](http://youtu.be/0uzEgsHypgM)  Edit: see [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copeqef) too!
[deleted]
Thank you for the response. I am actually a huge drama/physics nerd, but it's not surprising you took drama seeing as how well you handle speaking to large groups. I'll take the advice to heart. :)
Yes absolutely! The fundamental of computer science is problem solving, and no one will tell you that's not good to teach to kids. code.org is a good resource to look at to try out kid-oriented programming
Systems! Which is overwhelmingly vague. Databases, operating systems, networking, distributed systems -- systems touches almost everything in some way. My advisor is [Margo Seltzer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Margo_Seltzer), who's amazing!
I've taken this course and I plan to make computer science my major in college!! I am currently a Junior in high school.  Anyways I have this fear:  Do you think programmers will no longer be needed in this field due to robots and machines that can program more efficiently and better than us?? Or this a fear that at this day and age the current generation of programmer's will not have to face?   Thanks!!
Same question here, but as a married 21 year old who is starting college this upcoming semester.
[deleted]
We used to use [gcc](https://gcc.gnu.org/), but we now use [clang](http://clang.llvm.org/) because of its clearer (if still sometimes arcane!) error messages.
Hi! Cs50 This is Meeravali shaik.As a computers student i want to know which technologies should i learn ?and which will help me to get a job in top mnc's like GOOGLE,AMAZON .....etc???????
Where did you take cs75? seems like a big step from cs50!
Hiya legends....Is it possible to post the "More Comfortable" Sections? You only share the 1st "More Comfortable" Section. Even if one isn't yet "comfortable" there is still a lot that can be gleaned.
best linux version for programming?
See [this post](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copcixj)!
I would take the teleportation option. There's no difference between the teleported Mars version of me and the Earth version. In fact, destroying the Earth version makes it an easier decision. I would rather the Earth version be destroyed than kept around. Having someone else in the universe who looks like me sounds like a nightmare.
Off the top of my head - start easy, can you make it print something (anything) enough times for the right height?  Then print spaces and one # but decrement the number of spaces on each line and still get the right height?  Then get it to increment the #'s as the spaces decrement.  
[deleted]
This is a great question. I can write code that passes the check50 tests and ultimately gets auto-graded, but I have no idea if what I'm doing is "correct" as opposed to an ugly hack.  I understand it's not feasible to hand-grade everything, but maybe once the course is over you could post the "best solution" for every pset? Maybe you already do this, or maybe you can't do this because you use similar problems elsewhere, but it's just a thought. Thanks!
This question goes to David. I learned from your "The Geeks Shall Inherit the Earth" speech at Harvard Thinks Big 2010 that you have taken and enjoyed Dramatic Art 101. I wonder how much of this course has affected your passion and style as a teacher? Or is there some other influence that helped you become such a wonderful public speaker? The training in your earlier years as a gov major, perhaps? Or anything else?
I got that far!
Added to my watchlist :D (Already seen Office Space, as recommended by Sir David during a lecture video)
What are your favorite movies (it's hard to just pick one so, say up to 3) ever?
True, I usually get a response in 30 minutes on http://reddit.com/r/cs50 . The Facebook page is cool for jokes, showing off, and quick tips.
Prof. Malan,  Will CS50x offer early certificates this year for those who finish sooner (May/Sept.)?  Thx, PaulHC  
I'm taking cs50 through edX and love it but i'm envious of those taking it at Harvard for their ability to collaborate with each other. If i'm local, can I get involved somehow? Is there something offered through edx for those online that can work together on projects or simply for support or networking?
I'm pretty sure most of those locations are chosen because in those places we have particularly eager CS50x alums (the kind who answer a lot of questions on /r/cs50) and great TFs who've graduated and moved all over the world.
Are you listening music while coding? If so, what genre? Are you you doing some sports activities too...maybe playing an instrument, painting or some other art? :)
Thanks for the kind words. It wouldn't be accurate to say you have a diploma from Harvard upon completing CS50, but depending on how you take the course, it would be accurate to say:  * you have an [Honor Code Certificate](https://www.edx.org/sites/default/files/honor_code_cert.png) from [edX](http://cs50.edx.org/) * you have a [Verified Certificate](https://www.edx.org/sites/default/files/theme/example-certificate-verified.png) from [edX](http://cs50.edx.org/) * you have a [CS50 Certificate](http://www.extension.harvard.edu/sites/default/files/CS50-Certificate-Sample.pdf) from [Harvard Division of Continuing Education](https://cs50.harvard.edu/certificate) * you have course credit from [Harvard Extension School](http://www.extension.harvard.edu/courses/intensive-introduction-computer-science)  See [this chart](http://cdn.cs50.net/2015/x/references/compare/compare.html) to compare the options.
Not the CS50 Team, but I can attest to it! I definitely would prefer a Mac because of iOS development and the quality of the device, for the same reasons Rob said (trackpad scrolling and gestures)
Haha , yeah ! These are these specific lectures where you displayed some extracts of the said movies that motivated my question. :)   Is there any other movies in the same style that deserve to be quoted?   **edit :** Office Space is awesome !
See https://manual.cs50.net/appliance/!
Darn , I m much more present on the cs50 facebook page! Still, you guys come around, it will be a lot of fun :) And yes, this is a bribe :p
I want to know whether which courses from Harvard will be there on edX this year? And please come up with newer Android course on CS76 (or any). And I want to see Sir David as my lecturer :-) And thanks for everything CS50. I received my CS50 verified certificate a month ago. Cheers!
[deleted]
I've noticed in the videos that David Malan types pretty darn fast but talks fast too, who is faster him or the transcriptionist?
Definitely not, scratch is a great way of showing kids what you can do with computers, especially if you're able to help talk through conceptual problems he might run into
Hm, it depends on the project, but lately I've used PHP and JavaScript (via [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/)) quite a bit. I tend to use C only during CS50!
I am  ..almost 33 woman with no other degree than my high-school grad, I would indeed love to know if there is a story about late achievement :)
CLAMP in Ubuntu using C99. They provide a VM Image for VMware Free and for VirtualBox. There are also lots of people on the FB page that are into running it on their own machines.      I highly recommend using the VM image, as there are tools, libraries, examples, checkers, pre configured and ready to go. Also, they use the VM in the course, so if you're into "what you see is what you get" then this is the way to go.
Is Edx-CS50 certificate valid to be a part of my job interview folder?
i've already finish CS50 and want to learn c++ for future any reference to some online free materials ?
It's a cliche answer, but you really have to just keep practicing. Some might recommend working through things like Project Euler and TopCoder, so you could do those, though I never really did any of that. Most of my practice came straight from CS courses, so you could also try to look for more of those. And definitely actually DO the psets and projects to completion, even if you're not getting graded. Don't just tell yourself "oh I know how to figure out the rest from here", or look at an available solution and tell yourself "oh I definitely could have figured this out".   People ask me how I can look at their code and so quickly see their bugs, but after working with it for so long it's almost just like reading English and trying to spot logical (or grammatical) mistakes. And if you ever get the opportunity, teaching to someone helps you solidify the material 10x better than just teaching it to yourself!!
Last year, an indian student managed to make a big command and then found a way to ship it to India, you may have a chance doing that, via someone else maybe?
But much more people use gcc from what I understand (maybe my idea is biased).  Isn't the use of gcc a better idea, since copy-pasting the error message on google is likely to link toward a solved forum thread?
1. Coming soon! We're in the process of updating "CS50 Vault" for such. 1. Relatively few students tackle them, and most are non-trivial to assess via automation, so we've prioritized other projects for now!
[deleted]
ArchLinux is a popular one for sure. But Windows enviroments are huge in enterprise, so you'll see most developers using that. Ubuntu is  really user centric and not so much for developers. But Canonical has managed to make a lot of people think that Linux = Ubuntu
Thanks for checking. Yes, that would be okay. The problem sets do tend to change somewhat from year to year, so do be sure to submit code that's consistent with the semester's own specs. 
Maybe i can get it shipped to US address, and then somehow get it to my country XD I will try 
Hi All, Peter in the UK here. Before my question would also like to say thank you for providing this resource, I had been fiddling around the edges of CS learning for a good few years in rare gaps between work and family, but had not really got far. CS50 has really lit a fire under me though and concepts have been clicking in to place like dominoes - so Thank You, truly, I am loving it.  So here are my questions:-  1. I have looked with interest at Launch Code - is there any plans to bring an international element to this programme or is it to remain US based?  2. Are there any plans to bring further courses online (I know there are courses form other institutions out there on EdX etc, but I feel  I have some affinity with you guys now)?  Many Thanks Peter
What is good, ACT or SAT, to get good score even if one's English is not that excellent? It would be great if you could give some tip from your experience on how to get into Harvard and what all abilities and scores do i need for it. Thank You.
I'm planning to write it as a Certificate. Unfortunately, certificates in America have a stigma unless it's something very specific and in demand.
I'm probably most comfortable with C and OCaml, because of teaching CS50 and CS51. And on top of that my interest is in systems, which is still mostly C!
Scratch! :p
Yes, that's true. Excel works for small datasets but it tends to be unstable quite quickly in my opinion.
So,/u/davidmalan you're more of a web dev person than a "doing my own app" person on an everyday basis?
^ just kidding...same as David, I tend to use PHP and JavaScript quite a bit, as well as Python.
Not too many at the moment, but see  * http://www.extension.harvard.edu/open-learning-initiative * http://cs.harvard.edu/malan/courses/  for a few options!
+1
Unofficially, mine was the best, right?
Lots of C, from CS50(x)  but since starting grad school I'm using a lot of Python for my research!
Hahaha not sure if this is exactly what you mean, but we send the (edited) lecture videos out for captioning, so no one has to actually transcribe David "live".
Indeed! We also didn't want to bite off too many cities at once, since the localized support structures are currently an experiment for us!
When will you guys be joining Zamyla in one of her dance videos? 
Yeah, not buying it /u/pumpkin50 ....I knew it!
Any dates for CS50 in New Jersey?
I'm taking CS50 through edX and I just wanted to say thank you for making this class available to everybody! Also, Dr. Malan, you are an amazing teacher. I wish I had had professors like you as an undergrad and grad student.  What would you guys say is a good next step to this class? Should I just pick a project/language, dive in, and learn through doing? Or, are there other available classes you'd recommend for a better foundation? 
Hey /u/pumpkin50 ! Did you wear a 'heart' for valentine's day? :P
What's your funniest joke?
hey guys!  thanks for doing this AMA and being generally awesome :)  so my question is... after I've taken CS50x, how should I continue on with my CS studies. is there any other course you would recommend? would harvard CS51 also be made available online?
How to Train Your Dragon is probably the movie I've seen the most times. When I'm asked the question in a more formal setting and don't want to embarrass myself with that answer, I say Forrest Gump.
I wonder why Python is so underestimated in general by developpers: It's really a great prog language, OOP, and it requires as much thinking as any other OOP like Java or C#. Any idea why Python is saw as a "oop for toddlers" language?
Thank you! (for everything, including being born)  What were your CS50 final projects?   David, is there a story behind the ring you wear on your left index finger? 
I also wanted to say thanks for the great course!  Now for my question: In Windows I use the on screen keyboard to type (when my arms get tired, I've got a muscular disease). Can I install an onscreen keyboard in the appliance? And do you know one that works best ? Or is there already one in there (I did see a screenreader) and I just can't find it.
Nope, absolutely not! The only reason for the schedule is for those who feel some sort of structured deadlines would help them complete the material.
thank you so much professor. i'll look forward into it. 
And is there any way to help out with the support structures situation for instance?
You got me. Forrest Gump is in my top 3 too :) But so is Snach and 10 other movies. Not possible to make a choice!
Any of you handsome men gay?
Before CS50, I had some experience with OOP and Python. Completed the two CS courses by MITx, 6.00.1x and 6.00.2x. After CS50 I went all over the C language again using top notch resources + CS50 resources too, and may I say, it really helped me seeing some details that I could't see using Python and OOP approach. So I was wondering, should I choose C++ or Java as my next challenge? What's the best track, is C++ worth mastering before Java? Will this approach make me more efficient and better? Web dev is not on the list, for now.
I was definitely going to say yours was the best, but then David told me I'm not supposed to name favorites.
[deleted]
I joined CS50 for free at http://edx.org. I started lesson one within minutes of signing up.
What pushed you guys to put so much of yourselves (time, everyday life, etc...) in a MOOC? What keeps you motivated?
This is a great question.  I was surprised that London is not featured, especially as my city likes to think of itself as an up and coming tech scene!
[deleted]
I am graduating from an information system program and I also majored in Applied Mathematics. However I really want to be a computer scientist. Should I go for a BS or MS? 
Hello from Pakistan. You guys are awesome! Kind of an arbitrary question but did you guys know exactly which direction to head in after completing your undergrad? I just finished my EE and am still kind of lost. Would you recommend working for a bit before picking what to do my postgrad in?
here are two classic articles (accompanying mad internet debate!); pro C, and pro Python, respectively: "[You Can't Dig Upwards](http://www.evanmiller.org/you-cant-dig-upwards.html)" by Evan Miller (2014), and "[The Python Paradox](http://www.paulgraham.com/pypar.html)" by Paul Graham (2004).
I really love what you've been doing, and David you are an amazing teacher. Zamyla and rob all you other staff members helping with the shorts, and all the important background stuff. You're awesome.  But I wonder how can I best make use of a completed edx certificate and what can I do after I'm done with CS50x3?  And how could I best try to recruite people to get more interested in programming.  Also I just wanted to know if you have ever had thoughts of cooperating with khan academy to further centralize the place of learning? Because right now it feels kinda fragmented.
If you are about to teach an Algorithms course, what will be the language of your choice? 
Thanks Rob, i'll definitely keep practicing, because i love it. It's just that now there's so many ways to learn how to code and to be a programmer that i feel a little bit overwhelmed, but i'll try and keep practicing a little bit every day.
We do have post-mortems for the problem sets, where I walk through staff implementations of the problem sets (which aren't even necessarily the best, but would get full points for design and style. In particular, something like the spellchecking assignment could get REALLY complex). Unfortunately, there are some roadblocks with us posting those immediately. David tells me that they are "coming soon"!  At least for style, you can try using style50 in the appliance, which isn't perfect (and only works for the C assignments).  
Thanks Zamyla!! You managed to get away from rab-latting for this AMA ;)  F.
It will be! Ours story   35 years here!
I took CS50 back in 2009 and am now a professional software developer working for a startup I love. CS50 was an amazing course giving the most complete introduction to the subject I have ever found. I want to thank you so much, /u/davidjmalan for being such an animated, captivating professor. I took your course as an undergraduate majoring in Literature and it completely changed my life.   I have been considering a Masters degree in CS, being interested in AI and continuing my education. My main interest is learning and not how beneficial it would be for my career. How and why did you decide to continue your education? What do you feel you got out of it? Would you advise someone in my position to consider it despite the possibly short-term hit on my career as well as the time and money it costs.
So this is a common question, and a good one. We use PHP for one main reason: it is syntactically very similar to C. We only have about a week to teach PHP for the course, and so we want to make the transition as easy as possible.
I am part of a parent/teacher committee at San Marino High School in California that is developing a computer science curriculum. We lack a teacher well versed in modern programming, although we do have a bright calculus teacher, an engineer with background in FORTRAN.  Would you recommend the CS50 MOOC coupled with our onsite teacher meeting during a school period  as a good choice? Alternatively we are thinking of diving right into AP computer science using the UC Scout online curriculum. http://www.ucscout.org/courses/ap-computer-science-a  The AP curriculum is focused on Java coding and some feel it is too hard for an introductory course
Hey, thanks so much! It's great to hear from you :)  I'm in a Chemistry PhD program, after studying Engineering for my undergraduate degree. I found that I use my CS in my PhD program a lot, from making quick tools to make day-to-day research better, to longer simulations, etc. Of course I also use it to teach :) After my PhD, I want to pursue a career in academia, one that hopefully integrates Chemistry, Engineering and CS!
Our algorithms course at Harvard is CS124. The new professor allows solutions in Python, Java, C/C++, and OCaml. The old professor used to say "If you can explain to me EVERYTHING that the CPU is doing when you use Python, then you can use Python. Else, use C". Even the new professor deals with issues where the correct algorithm is implemented in Python, but because of some underlying behavior (maybe the way they are accessing or modifying list elements or something) the solution ends up taking too long on the grading server and gets marked incorrect. I'm all about C!
I m torn apart by the same **Java/C++/C#** issue. Which one to tackle first and how to choose one of them?
Also, could I use the internship as a portfolio piece?
Did you try http://www.zazzle.com/shop50 too? They offer shipping to a different subset of countries (though still incomplete, unfortunately)!
A variant of 75 is in the works but not sure if it'll debut this year or early next!
I get your point of view. C is the closest language to any algorithm  you can write on paper( old enough to get to pass tests and exams that way -_- )
Is there any chance of having the current run of the course (or at least the videos) available through the Android app?   (Right now I'm downloading the videos manually and moving them over to my phone, which works, but...it'd be nice if there was a system for it. :)
Thanks cs50 team...!\n  I have started CS50 on edX in the beginning of February.  I have been working on pset5 for almost 6 hours and I guess it is ok to get stuck on a problem accounting that I have no prior exp.  But somehow inability to solve the problem makes me upset, I feel like I am pointlessly infinite looping in my head.   So how do any of you tackle those sorts of hardship, specifically what do you do when you are stuck, when all chips are down and when you can not move on further?  *Zamyla /u/zamyla-cs50 doesn't seem to be helping this time(no offense we all adore you).
How do you manage learning new technologies, visiting places, making videos, teaching and then may be some entrepreneurial ventures? 
I have a bunch of shoes, and once in a blue moon when the dawn hasn't yet cracked, I leave the house with two different shoes on. Does this kind of thing happen to you guys?
The crazy German here has a point. Although some students taking CS50 can spare a whole hour of time dedicated to the lectures, others don't have that luxury.  I for one enjoyed the "live" experience the video lectures offer. Being a college student, having a peek at the inside of one of the most prestigious schools in the world is as exciting as the course materials. It would be a shame to cut it out. And I think one of CS50's purposes has to include serving as an advertisement for Harvard University. Just watch how much the number of applicants to CS@Harvard has grown in recent years, you know CS50's doing a great job.  For those who don't care much about or simply don't have time for what life at Harvard is like, I think they can always consult the scribe notes to have a general idea of what the lectures are about and which portion covers which topic.
I assume you mean this?  &gt; The byte data type is an 8-bit signed two's complement integer. It has a minimum value of -128 and a maximum value of 127 (inclusive).   Source: http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/datatypes.html
What is the proportion OSX vs. Windows vs. Linux in the gang?
Depends really, but Ubuntu is just the least developer-oriented one, I'd say. Ubuntu and especially its unity aren't liked by power-users that much.  Some people use Arch, Fedora, Kubuntu, Gentoo... Some Administrators or server Admins most likely using something like CentOS/RHEL or Debian.
Indeed, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/ for the course's official terms.
I am 50, and have been a stay-at-home mom, BUT I have 2 semesters left to get my BA in English.  I signed up for CS50 last year but never began.  Do you have older students that took the course and went on to support themselves successfully?   Thanks for doing this AMA!  :)
I was asking **Europe** in general, since, it's an interesting pool of potential future CS students and programmers who usually end up going to work in the US or Canada. So, **Rome** is and will be the only European city this year? Definitely?
CS50 is so great and innovative! I'm pretty sure that you had to push a lot of new ideas to bring it to life.  I'm studying CS in Poland and nothing here is like CS50. Not even partially. During most lectures there are only a blackboard and chalk used. And very old teacher's notes.  Have you ever felt that something at Harvard should be different? And what do you do when you want to make a change? Or at least how do you accept things which cannot be changed right now?   For now, all I know is thanks to Harvard's online courses. Especially the ones lectured by David. So, David, I'd also like to say that you're awesome. Really. And so inspiring. Not only in case of CS :)
I really really like the walkthroughs and shorts that are done. I guess my next question is do you feel like someone needs to watch the lectures and section videos or do you do you think the walkthroughs and shorts can stand by them self?
Is there a course, online resource, or book that could explain how to apply Calculus 1 level concepts in programming?      *(limits, derivatives, logs, e, anti-derivatives, optimization, sigma, Gauss/Simpson's rule, area under curve, rate of change monitoring)*      I've completed up to a calc 1 level of math, but I don't know where to go to learn how to use that in programming. That, or am I totally misguided?
I absolutely think so!! Young students should absolutely have access to programming and the study of computer science early! I think Scratch is a fantastic, accessible, fun introduction my little cousins love it! 
@ /u/zamyla-cs50 How is it to be surrounded by male programmers (I kinda have the same ..not an issue, way of life :) ) since STEM fields are mostly run by well, males?
No offence guys!
This course and the team are just awesome. Im learning through edX. I was working in a software concern for sometime. But mainly I worked on monotonous work and was boring. I am basically interested in application oriented fields such as data science, machine learning. What are the other courses that I can line up and hope from Harvard? Will I get any kind of list of courses that I can do for specializing in those fields?
They are different styles for different use cases. Personally, I like the "purity" of functional programming (rather than the "statefulness" of object-oriented).   In CS51, which is mostly functional programming but touches on object oriented, we have what I think is a pretty good example of where the style drastically differs:  Imagine you have a bunch of shapes (circle, triangle, square), each of which has a way of calculating the area and perimeter. In object-oriented programming, we would have separate classes for each shape type, and in each class we would have some Area method and some Perimeter method.  In functional programming, we would have a single Area function that takes a shape as an argument, and calculates the area correctly based on what shape you passed in. We would have an equivalent Perimeter function.  Now imagine we want to add in a new shape (a pentagon). In object-oriented programming, we just need to add a new Pentagon class that has an Area and Perimeter method, and we're all set. In functional programming, we (generally) have to go into EVERY SINGLE FUNCTION that takes a shape as an argument, and now add code to handle a pentagon. So we have to find the Area function, and modify that, and then go into the Perimeter function, and modify that.  Separately, imagine we want to add new functionality, let's say Resize. In object-oriented programming, we need to go into EVERY SINGLE SHAPE and add a Resize method, so we go into triangle, circle, rectangle, and pentagon and separately add Resize. In functional programming, we just need to add a single function, Resize, that takes a shape and resizes whatever that shape is appropriately.  So in functional programming, adding "functions" (Resize) is easy. In object-oriented, adding "shapes" (Pentagon) is easy. 
[deleted]
I took CS50x back in 2014 and my passion for programming has ignited since then. The work that you guys are doing is invaluable. I mostly remember Rob, Zamyla and of course Mr. Malan.   A question for you guys: **What do you think are the top programming languages to know in the near future, for a SW developer? Is it Python, Roby? Is Java still going to be on top?**
[deleted]
Geez...Zamyla is more than a dancing chick, she is a super smart and working on her PhD woman. Signed: A woman
Hey, welcome to CS50! I'd recommend taking advantage of all the courses's resources: watch lectures, sections, pause them and work on the section problems, watch the shorts for the Week. All this before actually starting the problem set! Then read through the problem set, sleep on it, watch my walkthrough videos, use pen/paper, any props you need to make sure you can explain the purpose of each step in your own way :)
I think it's overwhelmingly OSX, though some of us use the appliance (Linux) for some things. Harvard as a whole is overwhelmingly OSX-oriented.
I've been involved with CS50 since freshman year (as a student) to Course Assistant to Walkthrough Lead/TF so I've never been 'outside CS50' ;)  EDIT:  In all seriousness, though, I really appreciated Prof Malan giving me the opportunity to create the Walkthroughs -- the freedom to focus on how to create useful slides and lead students without giving too much away was challenging and really allowed me to exercise my own teaching style (a style I use today even while teaching other courses as a graduate student).
I am a student pursuing Chartered Accountancy in India (Kinda like the CPA in America). What career options do I have in computing &amp; Coding. Also , are there any possible opportunities in Harvard in a finance&amp;tech mix ? 
/u/davidjmalan  /u/rob-cs50  /u/zamyla-cs50  /u/pumpkin50 /u/dan_b_b /u/gablg1  Do you guys plan to put online some lectures, sessions, walktroughs etc.. **bloopers**?
Sections are not really required (in the more comfortable sections, I don't really go over material from lecture at all).  The short lecture examples that David now does on video are probably adequate for learning the material from lecture, though the lectures do have a number of other fun demos.
:) Probably not. It was more of a survey class on all aspects of theatre. I was in the drama club in high school for a bit, though, so maybe that helped!
/u/davidjmalan thank you making computer science interesting again. Was there any project out of CS50 Hackathon you thought of investing in or thought of it as a really brilliant idea (I liked many btw) ?
Thanks for the kind words!
this is not a dating website
But unofficially it definitely was!
Thank you. Is it for the reasons you described in the first comment or just the way it is at Harvard?
Afraid I don't have much free time, but I do like to travel!
For me, my current thoughts are going in a Microsoft-researchy direction (not necessarily Microsoft, but MSR is one of the more well-known research groups).
What is the most mainstream prejudice you all hear about CS on campus (and off, nerd doesn't count)?
Is Rob Bowden single? 
Hey Eireanngobrach87,  I actually have questions for you. I am an IT Administrator and I want to go into software development. (I've hit a ceiling in IT)      After CS50, what steps did you take to learning the skills you needed for your current job and how did you land that job?
Very little CS I did involves stuff like calculus (some does, but it's not a lot). Instead, the really mathy CS stuff involves a lot of proofs. I never took a pure math course beyond the intro multivariable and linear algebra courses at Harvard -- most of the proof stuff I learned within CS courses.
Great! :) I major in Electrical Engineering with specialization in Telecommunications(In Europe we have such major) so systems is the field I feel I'm gonna end up with. Thanks for the answer! 
use spaces where necessary, remember space " " is character. Also when # increases " " decreases.. u should kinda come up with equation that does that with each loop gl
Correct. This is an Ask Me Anything. Hence anything
Nope, just the way it is. The vast majority do not use the terminal on their Macs.
Office Space and Spaceballs...yup *thumbs up*
I am undertaking the course via edX as a fun challenge but I am not sure what I am really going to get out of it.  Without more advanced modules, cs50 will provide a general introduction to computer science but most employers such as those mentioned on the course will surely be looking to employ computer science graduates or graduates from other technical degrees.  If not already available, could some pathways or next steps be suggested for those who finish this course?  
I'd echo Rob's suggestions, particularly emphasizing teaching the material to someone else, whether by teaching a class, tutoring, or fielding questions via [stackoverflow.com](http://stackoverflow.com) or the like.  Also helpful is to tackle some non-trivial programming project of your own that you're truly passionate about. It's quite gratifying and empowering (if time-consuming!) to understand an entire project, inside and out! And tackling something from scratch forces you to make all the hard design decisions! That way, too, you're more likely to have a mental model (and possible solutions in mind) when you encounter a new but similar problem!
I'm looking forward to! :) 
[Actually, the majority (78%!!!) do not have any prior programming experience! And we're so proud of everyone :)]( http://i.imgur.com/U50o8y1.jpg)
[deleted]
Thanks. Next time at Statbucks, I'll sit close to the Mac users, close my eyes and try to imagine I'm at Harvard. :p
I'm all about extended marathons to catch up on TV shows I haven't seen.
Unfortunately, Rob is currently married to his work, though we'd be lying if we said we weren't also swept away by his long locks (Exhibit A: http://alumni.harvard.edu/sites/default/files/styles/thumbnail/public/story/teaser/Rob%20Larger.jpg?itok=qVSqczSg). Thankfully, there's also this: http://legacy50.spreadshirt.com/-I11588128
[deleted]
:) We're in the same boat. I started around Feb 8th. It took me a full week to get through pset 5. It's a doozy. There's a lot going on in that lesson.      I myself get emotional about programming. I blame it on my work ethic, as sometimes I take failure or delays personally. I don't snap @ people, but I think I put the bar too high for myself. Now that I'm learning new concepts that I've never seen before, I feel more balanced.      I do tend to use google a lot. I also tend to test my programs by using printf a lot instead of using GDB. (I find it unintuitive. The QBASIC IDE from the mid 90's was better then this.)      For the BMP header info, I got sick of using the provided peek function and wrote my own "info.c," just so I wouldn't waste time converting things from hex to decimal.
Can I balance this with a full-time job?
LaunchCode started in St. Louis, and after it's first year, expanded to Tampa. They plan on continuing to grow, but I haven't heard immediate plans for international.  source: LaunchCode Alumni
oh... what about mine? Was it a close second at least? :) 
What's your formula for line 1 if the pyramid is 5 high? what is the formula for line x if the pyramid is y high? 
Then Byte data type is used to save space on large assemblies, especially in the place of integers right ?, because a byte is four times smaller than an int.  Example: a = 100 byte, byte b = -50 I think so, guiding me by what you say, please get me out of doubt.
Is Excel VBA a good place to start for programming?
I'd love an answer to this, in regards to maths. I'm hoping to study CS but am not strong in maths and haven't studied it since high school (almost 10 years now). I'm worried it will be a significant hindrance. 
Hmmm, I think I just realized why they are training an army of programmers...
What real-life problem do think could be solved by writing a program that has yet to be written?
&gt; In other words, how can I know if there was a better, possibly faster method for computation?  This is a really hard problem, and one that doesn't have a definitive answer, unfortunately.  Mostly it takes a lot of thought about your code, and really analyzing it. You want to make sure you're making the least number of passes over your data set as possible, and really thinking on an asymptotic scale. To help do that, try and use all assumptions you have about the data set to your advantage (i.e. is the data sorted?).
this question is for Daven - what are your thoughts on yogurt? What types of emotions does it illicit?
If you were doing a JavaScript project - perhaps with Node.js - would you consider using something like MongoDB rather than MySQL and PHP for the data?
Hahaha some weeks it's better than others. Most of the edX questions I get are through email, and so sometimes it gets a bit overwhelming and takes me a bit to get back to people. When there is a bug in the autograder or something and the emails start flowing in, that's when the time starts racking up. Or recently, since the previous version of CS50x ended, I've been getting a good number of emails from people who have had issues receiving their certificates. It's probably an average of 3 to 5 hours a week on CS50x stuff when things are calmer?  As for sleep, last semester it was rough, where I'd probably be getting at most 4 hours during the weekdays and then crashing on the weekends. But this semester has been better all around!
**To** : Prof. /u/davidjmalan *1. What was your future-goal when you were a child? *2. What kind of food do you like, Sir? *3. What are you doing in your spare time? *4. What inspired you to make this course? *5. CS50 is very popular right now, what will be your next project, Sir? Will you expand more topics and programming languages? *Thanks so much for this opportunity. Thanks a lot to cs50 team!! 
I would love that!!
[deleted]
woot!!!!!! Hidden files war is on /u/rob-50 !!! Go ahead!! **high five** to /u/pumpkin50
[deleted]
I think the biggest difference is probably office hours, sections, and working on problem sets in a group. Basically anything that involves working and communicating with other students in the course. We try to encourage interaction between CS50x students on Facebook and the like, but I imagine it's sometimes easy to feel "lonely" as a CS50x student. That's why everyone should try to find a friend to take it with!  We definitely don't tone things down in any way in order to offer it to the general public.
Thank you David, you know, i'm not used to go to forums and stuff but i guess i'll try to go from now (i didn't knew stackoverflow.com, so thanks!)
Thanks for the response and I understand the limits of a question like this. These are really useful tips though, thanks!
What's staff's plan for international office hours? any schedule out? /u/davidjmalan  /u/pumpkin50 /u/rob-cs50 
Hey! I'm a CSE student doing my bachelor's degree here in India. You guys at CS50 teach coding by using Scratch (At least the week 0 lecture does. I just watched the second lecture today). So, I was just wondering; if I do my programming on Scratch, wouldn't I be missing how to learn the syntax and the language in which I'll be programming?
For me, I had a friend in the course who ended up deciding to apply to be a teaching fellow. When she got the position, she encouraged me to apply as well, and so I did. I'm glad she told me to do it!  I've met some of my best friends through working with CS50, so that's probably what I enjoy most (the other people). As for improvement, it's hard to exactly pin down, but sometimes (mostly on-campus) when a student runs into an issue, they immediately resort to asking a question of a staff member rather than try to figure things out for themselves. Somehow encouraging them to do that figuring out on their own would be great.
At the moment, submissions from students who are taking the course through Harvard College or Harvard Extension School are evaluated along axes of  * scope, * correctness, * design, and * style  whereas submissions from students taking CS50 through edX or Harvard Division of Continuing Education are evaluated along the axes of   * scope and * correctness.  Evaluating design at scale, I'm afraid, is non-trivial, since it's perhaps the most subjective and (for CS50 at least) quite time-consuming. More than just a score, it involves providing non-trivial qualitative feedback in the form of written, typed, or verbal comments. That's feasible (if still a challenge) for ~800 students at Harvard College and ~200 students at Harvard Extension School but not yet feasible, I'm afraid, for the thousands of submissions we receive via edX.  In the coming months, we hope to improve style50 such that it's used by all demographics for the assessment of style, after which we'll move on to the challenge of design! Odds are we'll facilitate peer feedback, too, but not leverage it for official assessment.
Thanks for the response rob! I forgot about style50, I'll make sure to run it from now on.  Cant wait to see those post-mortems! Keep up the good work!
Hello, I have two questions:  1. Favorite project that you have ever worked on?  2. I have two years of programming experience with Java and Python, (current high school senior), any recommendations on what language to learn next?
Unfortunately, we don't run CS50 on campus during the spring semester, so that wasn't possible this past weekend. However, I am certainly open to suggestions for what to wear in section in the fall!
It's hard to say. I wouldn't even begin to claim I know C++; there's just so much to the language.  I think that learning Java might give you a deeper understanding of OOP. It's more orthogonal to what you've seen so far, so I'd say go with that? Just my opinion.
[deleted]
[deleted]
This is such a great question; no offence should be taken! To be honest, there is so much to discuss with this question! Yay for STEMinists!  The quick and simple answer is that I take my work and studies very seriously -- and that's my approach in male dominated environments (my lab, my classes, CS50 etc). I truly see a more balanced (genderwise) future  for CS50-specific stats, CS50 has ~35% female students, and ~25% female staff. But, percent compositions aren't the only thing to focus on  it requires us all, females, males, everyone, to work hard to *discuss* and *challenge* the structures that keep the STEM world so male dominated.  I'll be posting more about this very topic in more detail at my [blog](blog.zamyla.com) if you are interested!  Thanks again for this question!
If you're talking about the course via edX then yes, definitely: one year to complete it :)
Tab vs 2,4 or 8 spaces for indentation?
[deleted]
Hi All. I've recently enrolled in the edX Introduction to Computer Science Course and am using it as a mandatory prerequisite for a certificate I am planning to take. I'm trying to decide whether to take  "Web Developing" OR "Object Oriented Software Developing" to supplement my Communications degree in Information Design (graphic design, technical writing, information architecture, UX, UI). Can you offer some words of advice as to which certificate I should pursue?   Thanks so much for your time. Currently enjoying the edX course, and recommended it to my friend who now wants to take all your courses :) We really appreciate your MOOCs!  
OOP is taught a bit in CS51, which is technically our "Introduction to Computer Science II". It'd just be too much to fit in one course!
Thanks so much for the response David! I understand that this problem is non-trivial at best. I am very impressed with both check50 and style50 for this matter.  Is there any way for the thousands of alum edX users or those more advanced to be able to collectively help develop style50 and design50 as some sort of opensource final project? Im not too versed in the scope of an undertaking such as this, however, with 300,000+ users last year, I think we could help share the load!
Thank you for cs50. My question is, what do you think of things like www.bloc.io and do you think they can at all replace degrees in CS?
It provides a good basis for algorithmic thinking and a platform to start learning about asymptotic complexity. If not sorting, then something else has to be used for these things, and inevitably it'll be something simple enough that there exist libraries for it.  And mergesort additionally provides a nice talking point for recursion.
can you pls tell what was your project all about?
Does that mean its already in the works?
Not quite "in the works", but the idea is at least being discussed.
4 spaces!! And while I have my tab key automatically indent with 4 spaces, I display the tab character as 8 spaces. Anything else is heresy.
Thank you for sharing this! Bookmarked your blog :)
[deleted]
Hey, Firstly a big thank you to the whole CS50 team. You guys are revolutionary! /u/davidjmala you are inspirational.  Well, I'm in my mid-twenties and from a third world country(Bachelor Degree in Electrical). We weren't taught major programming languages but we started off with C. The problem starts here, the tutor who taught us C was never really helpful and he didn't make the learning process interesting. This has created a fear(inadequacy) in me and I constantly ask myself if I have the intelligence to do any programming at all. Though CS50 is being instrumental in changing that mindset I want some suggestions on how to get over this mental barrier as I'm unable to break it. This has been a major reason as to why I refrain from trying for jobs in the IT sector.  How do I change my mindset?
Thanks for the link /u/zamyla-cs50 ! I hope STEM field will eventually find a balance, in many senses, for women to feel more welcomed or should I say, as fit for the job as a guy ! You heard? No offence should be taken! *seriously* Faza :)
There are an infinite number of programs that have yet to be written! I write one-off scripts all the time. For example, just yesterday I wrote (technically modified) a script that would tell me all of the students in CSCI E-50 who haven't yet been given a grade on the first assignment. I wouldn't have wanted to figure that out manually!
Any tips on how best to automate procedures and files using SQL?
Thanks a million for the effort you've put into the course!  I am currently a web developer for a startup and we are currently growing and hiring based on experience with new web technologies.  What are you're opinions on functional programming vs object oriented programming?
I once got "you're pretty normal for a CS person", which doesn't really seem like too much of a compliment.
Salsa and latin dancing is my life! Aside from that, I recently started exploring [blogging](http://blog.zamyla.com) and I'm enjoying that process so far!
A lot of the shorts have bloopers at the ends of them, I think!
yogurt jam ftw
Thanks again for the great course.  Roughly what proportion of those who register for cs50x go on to pass the course?
Firstly, a big thank you to everyone, its been awesome to learn so much in such a fun way.  My question's are :  1. How should one prepare himself or herself to be a better and effective programmer? 2. How to go about Data Structures &amp; Algorithms?
[deleted]
Hmm, "up to 3..." ;)   0) Pride and Prejudice   1) Inside Man   2) Matrix   3) Gosford Park
I plan to make a site like amazon, so what framework should i choose, should i go with PHP and SQL or go for python and SQL?
Yeah, some of them. But we need more! 
Maybe have a look at these too https://github.com/benwatkinsart/conf-talks#vim
Aww I doubt it. I wish! NJ pride.
firstly, thank you for this great course! I wanna ask that do i really need to be good in mathematics to become a good programmer.  also, after 'CS50' which language i can start on learning ??
Is there any chance of ruby on rails replacing PHP in some future CS50s?
Well played Zamyla..well played!!
Robots and machines that can program better than us are a LONG way off. Artificial intelligence is nowhere near that point yet.
Suggestions and contributions welcome! Though we'll likely overhaul the code base for style50 (and check50) this year, too, hopefully making it more conducive to contributions!
If it could spark an interest in CS at 15, and you continue with it, you'd definitely have a big advantage if you wanted to pursue a CS degree in college!
Seems like it. Damn it! On the other hand, a trip to italy would be quite awesome... 
Ooh, I love this question! I am a huge believer in TODO lists and agendas. I talk about it a bit here [in my blog](blog.zamyla.com) but really, it comes down to good note taking and creating goals (day goals, week goals, and larger life goals ). Helps me move through the day and achieve what I want in school, and generally in life!  My all-time favourite software for notes is Microsoft OneNote. Synced across my phone, Surface tablet, and Mac. The software admittedly isn't the smoothest, but despite the bugs, it is FANTASTIC for teaching: my students can access my notes right away, I can annotate course handouts, I love it. And I can handwrite TODO lists with the stylus, because ultimately my favourite tool is my handy pen and Moleskin notebook!
:) Thanks, /u/kubiti !!
You can't see me but I m laughing big time. /u/rob-cs50 Imagine what you'd have heard if you were of my gender!
what do you think of node.js and meteor.js btw? I'm a start-up founder, without any programming knowledge, and i would like to build quick prototypes to iterate on them through customer feedback, and i've heard meteor was good. Do you think that's true? Or perhaps python? I'm a bit lost in the middle of all these languages possible.
hehe ;)
charming...
Like everyone else Thank You!!! Probably asked already, but to everyone hardest programming challenge that you had to work on? Also David since you were doing Math and working at a startup. Is programming easier if you have a Math background? Again Thank you.!!
Hopefully, to inspire: with the tech. revolution, the playing field is now equal. Everyone who has a will, can find a way to succeed. Search for opportunities; dig deep, keep looking. And, examples are good, but sometimes we have to be our own example-see what qualities were searching for others to have and become that ourselves.  If its in you, failure is not an option. Know there are many like you, and never give up. Until I learn to program and create my own opportunities, just like you, Im benefitting from this great age we live in- 2 co.s that just started work from home (via computer). I now have my dream job within my grasp, which is so far from where I started (floundering around in seemingly dead end jobs).  Be passionate; be deliberate. Do your very best in every situation (job), perfect your skills, and keep searching, trying, even sometimes, failing, and youll obtain what you desire.  I do believe opportunities will abound- its right around the corner; its coming up. We can even make those opp.s for others someday. How great would that be! :) Sorry for drifting, going on; its coming from one who knows how you feel (from my heart, and not just my head).  Agree with crisguidoreni.  :)
&gt; That, or am I totally misguided?  A little bit :)  For the most part calculus and programming are pretty distinct. Certain features of programs are useful for calculus, for instance you can write a program to do Newton's method pretty easily, but the other way around  using calculus for programming, is pretty rare.
Hello CS50 staff!  I am a senior at the University of Minnesota, but I love CS50! I miss the Game of Fifteen (even though I could never get the code to work).   My question: will us online students ever see postmortems?   Thanks for everything!
http://youtu.be/pN3IbXVZ-N8?t=22m38s
/u/davidjmalan  /u/rob-cs50  /u/zamyla-cs50  /u/pumpkin50  /u/dan_b_b /u/gablg1  Any **news** from the Summer 2014 **cs50 jobs** applications? (saw the new apply link a few days ago)
This is my second time taking CS50.  I am a developer in the SF Bay Area.  I wanted to take the newer version because I enjoyed the first one so much.  You guys make computer science fun. Thank You!  My question pertains to the Hackathons you have scheduled.  I'm wondering why there is no plan to come to the Bay Area.  This is the birth place of Google, Facebook, and so many (now famous) Startups.  I'm a bit surprised  we aren't on your list as a stop.  The closest Hackathon you'll be hosting is in Seattle.  I'd love to attend one of your Hackathons.  Any plans to come here at some point?
I didn't even knew that. I just tried it at one of my psets: OMG! I have a lot of work to do!!! Thanks for lettings us know / reminding us!
Woke up from my sleep and remembered the AMA is going on. How do you guys balance work and personal life?
As of September 2014, this was the [distribution of OSes among CS50's undergrads](http://i.imgur.com/1EEhsQd.png).
Happy for you that this semester is less sleep consuming! :) And sorry , as I m part of the email /edX/questions ^__^;;
Don't you mean  0) Sulgh dqg Sumxglfh? 1) Lqvlgh...   ;)
It kinda shows itself in your body language, especially your arms and hands : you don't speak with your arms crossed for instance. I guess you just have **it** :)
Hi all.  I signed up for the course and didn't do it last year, so have signed up again this year as learning to use SQL/VBA/general coding as part of my new job. I just suck at motivating myself for self learning, is there anything you can recommend that will help me dive in feet first?  I'm from Newcastle Upon Tyne in England if anyone else is from around here and would like to study together
[deleted]
We'll see :) Hopefully yeah :)
The more comfortable sections from 2012 are posted (http://cs50.tv/2012/fall/#about,sections), which should mostly relate to this offering's stuff!
Thanxs for the full of hope and inspiring message :) Your username is really *a propos* btw!
Thank you for making CS50 available! 
After CS50 I did a bit of programming here and there but very little until after I graduated. The summer after graduating, I helped a friend get a website up for the business he was starting, and then another friend. Realizing there was a demand I started freelancing.  While freelancing I got back into online courses. From there I took a databases course from Stanford, a functional programming languages course, and started a SaaS course that used Rails. There was a lot with that course that I didn't understand but I found it interesting (also I hated PHP) so I went through a bunch of online resources to learn Ruby and then Rails, coming back and finishing that course a couple months later. (I am happy to go into what I used further here if you are interested in Ruby)  Outside of online courses I got really involved in the community, going to meetups, finding people online to pair program with, and going to a few conferences. What you go to here all depends on what you are interested in. I also read a ton of books ( I still read about 1 a week ). Also exercism.io is a great thing for improving your knowledge of a language and ability in general.  Regarding finding the job, I got to a point where I wanted to work with other developers closely, I went looking online and made up a list of jobs I was interested in. I found a lot of great looking opportunities on stackoverflow's careers page and also happened to find the job that hired me there as well. I have co-workers who have successfully used hired.com as well. My advice is to come up with exactly what you want and then do a ton of searching around and make up a big list to get an idea of the jobs available. Go through that list and try to really decide if the job is right for you and then get into the process of sending off your resume.   Hopefully that helps a bit, if you have any further questions feel free to pm me. Good luck!
I heard a story on NPR recently about a preschool which was teaching kids how to think like engineers with soft foam-rubber blocks, and they were actually learning it.
Script debugging trauma?
How important is information security to computer science instruction?
It's becoming increasingly relevant. You can probably get a CS degree without really seeing it. But CS50 is now talking about it, and Harvard now has multiple courses that touch on the topic in some way (including a Privacy and Technology course and Cryptography course).
One of many takeaways from CNN's 'Ivory Tower' is that, a primary disadvantage of online education vs the the education offered by brick and mortar institutions is simply the lack of communal participation. Yet here is cs50, utilizing the tools being provided by numerous MOOCs in such an exceptional way as to almost erode that barrier entirely. Is this a primary objective of cs50? If so, what is the end game? Or, sorry, I have to ask, is cs50 merely an advertisement for the quality of education one can get for almost $50,000 a year if one can afford attend Harvard?   All the best, Marty cs50 edX participant
Hey Zamyla. Quick question. Did you ever had any problems with Math? (It was too hard or boring or anything of the sort) How'd you dealt with it? 
David says elsewhere in the AMA that they are coming soon!
As a guy I'd like to encourage other guys to treat all of your colleagues the way your mother suggested you treat others.  Just sayin'
It's a possibility, but probably not in the near future. We've also actively discussed replacing PHP with Python (more so than Ruby), but haven't been compelled to do so yet.
My own first computer was a [Commodore 64](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/8-bit) after which I grew up with Macs (a [Mac Plus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macintosh_Plus), I think, and a [Mac SE](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macintosh_SE) among them). In college, I had a [MacBook 540c](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PowerBook_500_series) (that, in retrospect, looks ancient). Halfway through college, I became rather bored with Mac OS and got my first PC, a desktop running Windows NT or 2000, I think. Ten or so years later, I switched back to Mac OS (a couple years into teaching CS50, I think) and have primarily used Mac OS since. Though during lectures the past couple years, I've also used a Surface running Windows 7 or Windows 8 to control our touchscreen. Here and there I had some PCs running various flavors of Linux, too, and also used an Apple II a bit. I wouldn't say I currently love any OS in particular, but I do prefer the overall experience of Mac OS right now, including its terminal window.
There may be no difference between the two, but without continuity of consciousness, is it really you on Mars? ;-)
Hello! I would first like to thank Prof. David J. Malan /u/davidjmalan and the CS50 staff for taking your efforts and setting up one of Harvard's biggest courses online on edX. I have gotten to learn much more concepts with lots of ease with this course.  I have taken Engineering in Systems and Computation career at my university here in my country. I have plans of achieving masters and doctorate degrees in another country to gain much more experience. My interests rely basically on topics such as security, dynamic web development, apps, and the cloud. I am about to start the third year at my college. I think it's time to start thinking about my future studies. Are there any such programs that you can recommend me at Harvard for my future studies within the CS area?
Not sure if a double post, but my other answer was at http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copg45l?context=1
Hmm, depends on type of coding (just starting, debugging, commenting, etc.)... and on my mood! Usually solo violin or cello, or bachata. I usually take breaks from the computer screen every 30 minutes or so, and do some push ups or another quick workout to get refocused. Or I dance for a few songs! :)
Haha no worries!
Thank you for this ! Wow, the proportion of Mac users is *insane*! Rob told me in a previous comment about the OSX culture among Harvard but I did not expected such a dominance.   Poor Fedora guy though.
Does continuity of consciousness really "mean" anything in the grand scheme of things? If I hit my head and black out briefly, is the person who wakes up a different me?  (/u/brenner14 would definitely say that the continuity means something, but he is wrong)
First of all, Thanks guys. You literally have no idea of how CS50 has impacted on me. I have a question for Jason, /u/pumpkin50. In the section in CS50 you dressed as a pumpkin for haloween, you said you wore it for a reason and it was a sad story. What's the story, Jason? FYI, I don't mind that you say "sweet" too much.
Happy to try, but I should caution that the team tends to have a lot on its plate, so it's probably best to solicit feedback among CS50's communities too!  * http://www.reddit.com/r/cs50  * https://www.facebook.com/groups/cs50
Do you know, with Yale starting to participate in their own CS50, if that location will start hosting things for CS50x in addition to whatever they have for enrolled students?
Well, I try to only write you an email if I sense a disturbance in the Facebook :)
One of my favourite videos: [CS50 Outtakes 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vYI14RbX-tY&amp;index=2&amp;list=PLhQjrBD2T381Ksg1EOKVULZxoil8uoEad)
*Very* close second!
http://cs75.tv/2012/summer/
/u/davidjmalan /u/rob-cs50 /u/zamyla-cs50 /u/pumpkin50 /u/dan_b_b /u/gablg1  Which one of you(if any) feels really not comfy in front of a camera (like shorts lectures sessions) and needed to work on that? Or just doesn't like it at all? How do you all deal with it?
Bookmarked! Thank you Zamyla :)
Hello, and thanks to all. I hope this will continue with CS51 one day, as many of us. One question: I was taught when I was younger that CS and fun was 2 different things that should/could not mix. Now I feel a lot of guilt while looking at CS50. Can you recommend some sort of therapy? 
With great imbalance, I'll admit!
Is /u/BioTurboNick a plant? Or do we really think so alike that we both use the phrase "continu(e)ity of consciousness"?
At this point I'm not too bad with being on camera. I'm really bad at watching the recordings of myself, though. I can't watch any of them. When someone is watching a video of me at office hours or something, I have to walk away.
Very interesting answer ! Thank you for it !
Haha, /u/UkeleleIsle, /u/rob-cs50 learned the [funk50](http://youtu.be/B4m2fjL4iyI?t=1m4s) choreography really quickly! And you didn't see the rest of the team funkin' out behind the camera! ... Maybe we should make another dance video and have /u/davidjmalan join in the choreo! :p
Seems to go with the CS field, somehow :)
Yes! Thanks! While I do dance, I am mostly 95% of my life in academia/research/teaching/etc. :)
Haha, good one!!! :D
ooooh I completely get that. And the voice thing. Hearing your own voice is like...It shouldn't be authorized! :):
[deleted]
I'd echo /u/dan_b_b's sentiments. PHP is quite similar syntactically to C, and I think the language's documentation on php.net is terrific pedagogically, complete with (usually) straightforward definitions and examples (even if the language itself has some imperfections). PHP is also quite omnipresent among web hosts these days and is relatively simple to get up and running.  Given that we spend relatively few weeks on web programming, those are (for us!) some very compelling upsides. We've considered transitioning to Python for the tail end of the course but no immediate plans just yet.
;)
I understand what you're trying to explain with this example but wouldn't it be easier to add the resize function in OOP if you have an overall shape class, with each class inheriting from it and using override?
I was trying to come up with a different example from Resize for multiple reasons, but was taking too long to think of one so went with it. But you could imagine that the Resize functionality isn't necessarily something that you can define in a Shape class. If you are keeping track of the radius for a circle, 3 sides for a triangle, and width and height for a rectangle, what exactly will the resize method do in a Shape class? All of those instance variables would be in a sub-class, and you couldn't modify them from the Shape class.
[deleted]
I really don't know much about functional programming, so perhaps I'm missing the relevant point. So is the difference just whether you are organizing your code by what it does rather than by what it acts on?
Aww. pset5 is admittedly a tough one, and also coincides with me being purposefully less explicit in my hints... but I have faith in all of you! Focus on really understanding the structure of the bitmaps and jpegs, and how they're represented in the structs provided. Draw it out, explain it to a friend... then, think of how you need to interpret and/or modify the image files. Once you have a plan for what you want to do, review the tools that we've introduced (fread, fwrite, etc.)  In general, this is a feeling that I've definitely felt before  in fact, during this very same pset! When you feel you can't more on further, my best tip would be to *take a step away*. Go for a walk, meditate, go to the gym, dance it off work on another project! **SLEEP**. Distance gives perspective  if you're running into a wall, backing away from it can help you see a path to walk around that wall.  Best of luck, /n/cs50party! &lt;3
[deleted]
Which TV shows do you watch?
What would you recommend as the next step for people after completing this course?
David - (or any of you)  What kind of research in computer science do you do, if any?  What sort of cutting-edge research in computer science excites you the most?
Thank you. Makes good sense. 
The taking a step away aka switch to do something else is the hardest part :) I can't switch my brain off even when I manage to get some sleep! I assume I m not the only one :)  @ /u/cs50party This is how we pretty much all felt when tackling pset2, yet you are working on pset 5 :) You'll find a lot of people willing to help you here or on facebook, including the cheering up part! Challenging, but doable. It will take the time necessary, no matter how long that period of time is but you'll eventually achieve it :)
[deleted]
For the next year, I'm focused on http://cs50.yale.edu/ :p
I mean, Seriously?? Pretty sure /u/zamyla-cs50 didn't get in Harvard based on that criterium
Hilarious! Thanks!
Thanks for the question! You'll find your answer at the start of my 2011 section: http://cs50.tv/2011/fall/sections/8/section8.mp4  Enjoy!
It's something like that. There's also a big point about functional programming generally not having side effects, but yeah, the point I'm making in the above is that a "class" organizes everything by shape. So we have a Triangle shape, which defines a Resize, Perimeter, and Area method. Then we have a Circle shape, which defines a Resize, Perimeter, and Area method. In FP, things are organized by function. So we have an Area function that differentiates between Triangles, Circles, Rectangles, etc. within it. And a Perimeter function that differentiates between Triangles, Circles, Rectangles, etc.  So in OOP, the organization is:  1) Triangle  * Area  * Perimeter  * Resize  2) Rectangle  * Area  * Perimeter  * Resize  3) Circle  * Area  * Perimeter  * Resize   And in FP:  1) Area  * Triangle  * Rectangle  * Circle  2) Perimeter  * Triangle  * Rectangle  * Circle  3) Resize  * Triangle  * Rectangle  * Circle    Looking at the above, you can see that adding in a function requires adding a bullet to three separate places in the OOP organization, and just 1 grouped thing at the bottom of FP. To add in a new shape, it's just 1 grouped thing at the bottom of OOP, and three separate places in the FP.
Nope, I'm an animal. /biologyjoke
So, looking at this AMA got me to register for my first online CS programming course, CS50 at edX. I had a horrid experience learning CS in high school although I was quite proficient in mathematics and the science. I'd like to start from scratch. Would you say CS50 is a good course to start off with? 
Two part question-- First one: do you know the percent of students at Harvard who were non-CS majors, switching over to CS after/during CS50?  Second one for /u/davidjmalan : If you could have anyone come and be a guest lecturer/teacher for CS50 who would it be?
[deleted]
Being pretty doesn't mean she can't be smart, dear.
[deleted]
Just caught up on It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia, so been watching that. Better Call Saul and Parks and Rec (series finale next week!). Definitely Game of Thrones.  In the past, LOST is probably one of my favorite shows of all time.
[deleted]
I'd argue for the same reason that human civilization still means something despite their being a maximum duration imposed by the universe's heat death. Or is the heat death of the universe just an overflow in the Matrix, setting us back to 0?  There's a Deep Thoughts segment in here.
/u/davidjmalan /u/rob-cs50 /u/zamyla-cs50 /u/pumpkin50 /u/dan_b_b /u/gablg1 If you have some, what are your favorite video games (I m more of an RPG person :) and no, this is not a CS person clich!)?
I actually find it hardest to shoot material when it's just a few of us present (e.g., just the production team and I in the studio), since I feel a lot more pressure to get my words just right, whereas in lecture I (perhaps paradoxically) feel more comfortable speaking more naturally. As a result, I always feel compelled to start over and get things just right when pre-producing material, which is a luxury we don't have during live shoots!
  Ask I am a high school student. My school does not have Computer Science. I will be a senior next year and would like to propose taking CS50 as an independent study class. I started it in January and liked it but I had at.hard time when my programs were buggy. Is there someone who would be willing to oversee me ?  What if my school pays something?  I go to the Lab School of Washington.  Thank you. Noah. 
Greetings, Prof. David Malan, Jason, Zamyla, Rob and all CS50 classmates!  My following questions:  Is there plans to select Los Angeles, CA as an additional city for a Hackathon? Will there be "CS50 year 2015" t-shirts for sale soon?  
I think it's the "I only have on shot" good stress during lectures vs. "There 's got to be a way to do it better" in the studio :)
Makes sense. Using override would still have you writing the function in all the classes. So I guess its not a good workaround. Thanks for clarifying. 
Is there a reason for the choice of **Chrome** as default browser over **Chromium** or **Firefox** for the appliance?
[deleted]
Hi, I'm wondering if anyone can speak to the challenge of completing the the class online? Without external structure/pressure, it can be quite difficult to make it happen, even though it's a fascinating course. Also, is there anyone in NYC who'd be interested in creating an informal discussion group that might be able to help apply some peer pressure in person?
Hey. CS50x student here, currently on week 3! Thank you for everything!  For every one of you: What's the best memory in all these years of teaching CS50? Any special lecture, student or colored elefant that you guys will never forget?
ICWUDT
Definitely Yes!
Your instructions are very informative :) Thanks for that and for your advice! Yep I guess I need to somehow figure out how to take a step back to see things clearer. Pset5 is about Mispellings btw but thank you anyway!  
In CS50? Probably pointers and memory management. Outside of that, though it's probably not a "programming notion", is all of the theory stuff. Turing machines, P=NP, asymptotic complexity, and all that.
Allow me to respond [as before](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copcn4l)! :)
Byte data type is used to save space on large assemblies, especially in the place of integers right ?, because a byte is four times smaller than an int. Example: a = 100 byte, byte b = -50 I think so, guiding me by what you say, please get me out of doubt..
  Seen this?  http://cdn.cs50.net/2015/x/events/hours/hours.html
Thanks! That 's motivating.
Hi David /u/davidjmalan , I'm Alain and I took CS50x in 2014, Why cs50's videos(lectures and sections) are always update each year at cs50.tv and on YouTube but others course's handout (for extension school) like CSE-75, CSE-76,CSE-259 are old for two, three years and seven years for CSE-259 ? Thanks for this great opportunity, we still have a lot to learn.
Hi Im Kimberly and would like to know how this class can help me.  Im basically computer illeriate but I manage to find my way through by continually trying when I dont succeed.  Will this be a good class for me or should I look for something more basic to get started?  I dont want to go through the next 4 weeks lost. Thanks.
wow! the $1M P = NP enigma...It's on a different level since it's a very specific topic. I wonder if someone will find a solution to P = NP, and at the same time I m not sure whether it would be a good thing or a bad one... I'd go with the memory management and pointers too! 
If I said it, then I mdefinitely mean it :)
For a while (not sure of the current state of things), Chrome had a lot of built-in developer tools for web programming for which Firefox required extensions. Firefox was the default in 2009, I believe.
Does the guy who plays the launchpad at the end of the first lecture have a soundcloud? That was awesome. 
Hello! Any chances of giveaways this year too in CS50 Live? Perhaps CS50 stress balls, Tshirts...
isn't pset5 the speller?
Guys, what is up with the Mac love? Would love to see you sporting the CS50 appliance in something like Ubuntu... So deep down are you guys OSx, Linux, BSD or heaven forbid Windows guys!
link to your project? ;)
Okay, thanks :)
It was forensics in 2014 :) I guess it's because of that  ;)
For those who bring their phone on the toilets, which app do you use?
/u/rob-cs50 ,/u/davidjmalan,/u/zamyla-cs50,/u/pumpkin50 (1)What do you need to do in order to get a job as a programmer? (2)Where can a programmer work? (3)Can s/he work in any company or just IT ones ?
* How often do you use programs / scripts for your daily use?  * Which tasks do you automate on your own computer (like backups, cleaning the garbage stuff that you don't need anymore...) * Do you usually write it up from scratch or do you adapt something from the internet for your own purpose? 
The song was [M4SONIC - Weapon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3vC5TsSyNjU). Not sure if the guy has any relation to M4SONIC or he is just mimicking it.
reddit is fun. Twitter. Facebook. If I've planned my day around it maybe Netflix or Plex.
[deleted]
What is the best thing to do for finding inspiration and new ideas for an iPhone or android app?
/u/rob-cs50 ,/u/davidjmalan,/u/zamyla-cs50,/u/pumpkin50:  What was your final project when you took the course? :)
I'm guessing the Vista people are in the Business School?  Haha!
I didn't take the course, but rather audited it, so I didn't have a final project :-(
the guy is Colton Ogden :)
What was the project can we get a link to take a look?
hum....you mean you didn't sign for the course, but attended to the lectures ? Is it the friend you were talking about who dragged you there(the one who pushed you to be a TF)?
haha yes, exactly!
[deleted]
*Nailed it!!*
Hai! I'd like to first thank you for CS50, your efforts, and just how easy you make CS look and also how easy it is to teach it. My question to Mr. David: I've once had the curiosity to read your cv, and... I was both impressed and inspired by the.. 'amount' of things one can focus at and work with. My curiosity often drives me to quickly switch from language to other and from frameworks, concepts, ideas, to other ones that seem 'more impressive'. Is it unhealthy? Should I rather take things slow, focus one a few couple of things and getting accustomed to them? From a 'finding a job after graduating' perspective, which way is valid and when?
What is your favorite programming language? :)
The "byte" data type doesn't really exist in C. Instead, there's "char", which is always guaranteed to be one byte. And yes, you can (sometimes) use it to save space over using an integer.
I was too lazy to make calculations on hex as well. So I used calculator in Windows (Programming Mode).
Hello there! really I'm very happy to take CS50 online course , it is the best in the world because is where i found what i was looking for.Thanks to all CS50's Members who brought that great idea MAY GOD BLESS YOU. so here are my questions:  1, Of course , in CS50 we learn how to programming  and we know at the end of the course we will become good programmers , so apart of programming there is other things which we can do after taking CS50?  2, Yes, is  about ed x verified Certificate, as we know with verified Certificate we can get jobs . And, if our wish is  to working as a CS50's Staff , how can we join the group  and yet we are studying  online? not physically there?                                                                   Thank you !
Haha - thanks for that funk50 link!  Loved it.  :)
Hi , 1st of all thanks for making such an awesome class , I'm currently rocking my 1st year at university. 1.Do you think cs50 is one of the 1st steps into making education for accessible to people in the world?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Ah. Yeah. I felt that would be the answer.      Well, I tried. looks like For loops to Sigmas it is then. :P
What are the keys to running a successful programming MOOC?
Thanks to the CS50 staff! /u/davidjmalan /u/rob-cs50 /u/zamyla-cs50 /u/pumpkin50   Any one/multiple of you guys an introvert or shy?
How does one best make a career change through a coding bootcamp? 
First of all ... Thank you, David /u/davidjmalan and all CS50 TF's /staff  /u/rob-cs50 /u/zamyla-cs50 /u/pumpkin50 /u/dan_b_b /u/gablg1 /u/rj-cs50 that we can take this great course online and for free! I took some CS courses at university quite a while ago but I could already learn much more from your lessons, walkthroughs etc and the psets. Absolutely amazing material!  I have one question regarding the CS50x hackatons and the reservations. You have the options Yes/Maybe/No:  Will those people who choose Maybe also be informed by email or only those who choose Yes?  I know this was already partially asked before:  How much time in advance will you confirm the dates for the hackathons? 1-2 month before the event (or more)? Visitors from overseas may need a bit more planning time ahead :)...
I also find your delivery sterling.  I saw a presentation today on library dependency, builds and config mgmnt and it was pretty good, but the lecturer's delivery was so bad that I felt obligated to point out the solid part of the speaker's argument.  Didn't you have methods classes?  I never feel that I have to explain what you said.
Provided that we *successfully* finished the course with minor use of outside resources and with no programming experience other than cs50, what could we potentially accomplish on the final project?    
I would call myself a slightly extroverted introvert :)
This is exactly the line of thinking and questioning that inspires me and makes me so proud of the CS50 final projects. The diverse projects every year amaze me! From a project promoting energy efficiency to calculating your eco footprint to aggregated news sites to promoting fitness/health... human 'problems' big or small are tackled by CS50 students!
Rob the answer is always 42! 
Are there any plans to add successive courses to edx.org?
Rob, what are you [holding](http://i.imgur.com/h7iJ6RQ.jpg)? Is it a cat? Also, did I implement the solution correct on this one?  PS. Although I didn't finish the whole CS50 yet, but starting it last year inspired me to start studying CS, so now I am a fresh student again at the age of 24 in a field that I am very excited about.   Thanks, CS50!  BTW, realised that a lot of stuff that I am learning in school now is covered in CS50 as well, so I decided to suck it up and do CS50x3!
I may be able to help with this question.  I, also wanted to find the best programming language to learn, and I spent two plus years trying to learn several different languages.  What I ended up finding out is that your best bet is to learn basic programming skills first.  Once you have that foundation, it should be much easier to determine and learn the best programming language for your program. I'm just getting started in basic programming, bet this seems to be a much better way to go.  CS50 appears to be a fantastic way to get started, sadly I keep getting stuck on pset0.  How sad is that?  Not because I have problems with the how-tos, I just cannot think of a unique program.  Every single time I end up just rewriting one of the examples I looked at!  Programming may not be my thing! But, I do think you should learn basic programming instead of concentrating on one specific language to start.
I would like to start by saying that CS50 was my first exposure to computer science and it has changed my life ever since; I had always been curious about programming but didn't know where and how to start learning, and cs50 was my key to the door. Now I am on a path to become a web developer.   You guys have LITERALLY changed hundreds of thousands of people's lives by empowering them with your knowledge...so the questions:  1) How does it feel to have touched on so many people's lives in positive ways? How would you describe it? Surreal?  2) Did you ever dream of cs50 becoming the beast that it is today?  3) Where do you see yourself right now, had you decided on a path not taken?   And thanks, &lt;33333333333
I am also curious about this.
Hahaha yes, it's a stuffed cat that we have in the cs50 office. And yep, this is a correct solution!
And I would call myself a slightly introverted extrovert!  No wait. No I wouldn't. Just straight-up introvert.
[This video](http://thecolbertreport.cc.com/videos/zwqhae/anant-agarwal) is how I learned about edx.org and top tier free online education. CS50 was advertised on edx.org at no cost.      What Mr. Anant Argawal has to say I think is an to your question.      ----    **Disclaimer:** *I am just a redditor. I am not a teacher or staffer at any educational institution or program.*
/u/davidjmalan  /u/pumpkin50  if you were to pick between Android phone and Iphone, which one would you pick? 
Is it possible to come up with more colors and make you more visible by playing around with code? I have tried a bit but no success.
What is your opinion on the coding bootcamps that has recently become very popular like App Academy and Hack reactor?
What are some of the students that took cs50 with you @davidjmalan and become really famous? For famous I mean in the world or to cs people only.  Name all the ones that come to your mind.
 Do you think online classes like cs50x can provide education equal in quality as in-class lectures?
Hi, so I am in my second semester and I m majoring in Aerospace Engineering. I am about to take CS50 along with my Spring sem. My question was that there are so many programming languages that I've heard of. There's C++, Python, Java-Script and many others. So I have my question dividing into two parts here:  1. Is it that one language surpasses other language functionally. i.e Does C++ do something that Python cannot do or vice versa  2. If not, why was the need to create so many languages? 3. There are also some soft-wares like Solid-Works, MATLAB, and others. Do they use programming languages as well? 4. What are some of websites that I could use for learning MATLAB? 5. I am sorry, but this is kind of personal and I ask this because I hear this from quiet a lot of people. Being associated with Harvard University, do you guys feel that you are somewhere better than all the other people across the Globe? 6. All the high achievers are usually associated with institutes like Harvard, MIT, Princeton, and other institutes. Now you might call this my insecurity or just my desire to perform well in what I want to pursue... Is degree from one of top universities quintessential to excellence.  7. Is there any plan to build upon a software that takes in normal spoken English words into understandable programming language and creates a software that includes all what is required of it.    I know there are too many, but I'd be glad if you can answer. 
Virtualbox gave me fits on Linux took 3 hours to get working. There's a few settings you have to have right or networking wouldn't start. Hit me up with an email markscheck@gmail.com
Speaking of movies, in the Social Network there is a scene in which "Mark" hacks the databases. What is your opinion about the accuracy of that hacking scene? 
Thank you  /u/davidjmalan, /u/rob-cs50, /u/zamyla-cs50, /u/pumpkin50 and all who make CS50x3 possible! Please do respond - What certs/tech do you see jobs in, in the near future?
[deleted]
[deleted]
David and team, CS50X has been a fantastic experience thank you for that... I managed to compete the course and get a certificate however in one of his conferences David mentioned that the completion rate for CS50X was very small (less than 10% in 2013 I believe )... Has that figure improved? Do you think it matters as a benchmark for success?  Thanks. 
Yes, there's a better way (but not expected). I can't remember exactly (I would have to look at the bmp), but it goes something like:  Some pixels were made red by setting the blue and green fields equal to zero. But the red value wasn't itself modified. So, whenever you encounter a pixel that has blue and green values set to 0, set them equal to the most recently seen nonzero blue and green values (since nearby pixels are likely to contain similar blue and green values in the original image, this is a good heuristic).  It's not perfect, but the image ends up being a bit clearer: http://i.imgur.com/7cJPtjY.png   Then you can take it a step further. This version "Uses combination of grayscaling and non-linear filter techniques to reduce noise.": http://i.imgur.com/ilmZQ6h.png
Not sure if I'm thinking of the right scene (it's been a while), but is this talking about scraping the house (i.e. dorm) facebooks to download student images for his Hot or Not site? If so, that is super easy to do. In fact, they made it even easier! There is now a centralized college facebook, rather than a different facebook for each house.
Hey guys, just want to let u know u all are doing a fantastic job with cs50!! I'm currently taking a c# programming course at my university  and struggling with it a bit as this is my second programming course I taken so far..  1)  Any there any good resources out there apart from cs50 that may help me?  2) What should I do to keep myself motivated to go on?  3) How can I improve my programming skills?  
/u/cs50party, if you need some help, feel free to send me a message. I might be able to get you unstuck.
Sure thing :) http://youtu.be/bG8MDyRuIGk
I love to ~~cook~~ eat, so I made a website for students to make collaborative recipes with food just from the Harvard dining halls. #nomnomnom
yep exactly, that scene :D
Awesome, that looks great! 
[deleted]
[deleted]
hi guys!  thanks for all your awesome work and dedication making this class and providing it to the public for free!  * Do you guys all know already what you want to do after graduation?  I mean CS is a really big field so have you decided to specialize in crypto or web programming, database etc?  What are some of the ways you investigated different areas of the field?  * I see several posts asking for success stories for late learners.  I am also interested in this as I only studied CS formally for a couple years and have had a decade of no really meaningful experience (until now!).  Do you have any suggestions for us as far as the type of career we should be looking for (ie entry-level programmer with a Corp or maybe just improving our CS knowledgebase and look for some type of consulting position)?  * Have you guys considered doing something like a chat room where students could meet online and discuss issues/topics in realtime rather than the thread-based systems currently available?  Thanks for your time and maybe I'll have the opportunity to meet some of you at a Hackathon if one comes to my area.   
I think that there are always changes and improvements to be made in all aspects (for CS50, for Harvard, for society...) CS50's growth has been amazing - when I took it, Office Hours were in a basement computer lab, and each student sat at their own cubicle while they waited for their turn for a TF to come help them. 2 years later, we had &gt;300 students in dining halls. Harvard administration has been integral to the success of such changes (and so much more, as CS50 has grown to be the most popular undergraduate course at Harvard, and beyond!)
Bloopers?  I thought you guys nailed all these in one shot - everytime!
Helllo David, Rob, Zamyla, Jason, Dan, Gabriel and R.J. /u/davidjmalan /u/rob-cs50 /u/zamyla-cs50 /u/pumpkin50 /u/dan_b_b /u/gablg1 /u/rj-cs50  thank you for taking the time for this AMA session for us!  Which is the best way to contact you with any CS50 related questions? Email, Facebook, Twitter, Reddit or ... Which one do you personally prefer?  I can imagine that you all get a lot of messages and you may not be able to reply all of them.
How many students are taking CS50 at edX?
Personally email for me. And twitter is by far the least favorite.
Last year it was over 300,000! Not sure what it ended at.
What skills are absolutely necessary for becoming a CS major? BTW, thanks for making this amazing course happen!
thank you for the answer! good to know.
Love you guys! Youre awesome!  Sooo appreciate all your hard work- all you did to get where you are now (all those late nights, sacrifices...), and all you continue to do! It only gets better!     Did you originally expect to reach all the people that youre reaching now, and to change all the lives youre changing through CS50, or is it more like a dream come true (dont wake me up sort of thing)?           Thanks! Youre the best of the best! :)  And, its great to see when you guys have fun doing what you do (Uptown Funk video)- its well deserved! Dont break the spellYou makeCS50 [computing] fun; its all I want to do. [Fleetwood Mac- corny, sorry, but makes the point in a fun way, hopefully] :)
Oh! I've got to try this.  Thanks /u/rob-cs50 
Do you know how many of the 300k submitted pset8 or the final project? I saw the numbers for 2012 on David's website and wonder if the dropoff is still similar.
Fred Gage and Terrence Sejnowski have done research on exercise and learning.  Gage showed that environmental richness and exercise can actually cause the growth of new brain cells, and Terry Sejnowski has shown "...long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus is enhanced by exercise."  (Meaning exercise helps you remember new things.)  Now if you'll excuse me, I need to do some jumping jacks.  
just a trivial detail psets have changed, it is ok not to keep up
oohhh thanks a lot! I would definitely e-mail you ;)
\#exposed
Where can I get a list of CS50 final projects like those?  BTW, I just watched your greedy CS50 walkthrough.  Thanks for your reply!    Also, since you're such a bad ass, can you design the next battery to help solve our energy storage problem?  I just found out you studied engineering and are now studying Chemistry, so I thought you might be up to the task.  BTW your sort of my hero.
[Contrast]  I'm a 16 year old programmer, and I love doing it. I don't know of any "MAJOR" success stories other than... well.. all of them! Computer programming is awesome and you should continue to learn!  Minor success story: My computer science teacher started working in his mid 30's in computer science. He taught himself by tinkering and from some books he picked up. Now, he works part time as a teacher and otherwise works at Oracle. He was in charge of Mac Development, even!  If you really want to try at it, you can accomplish it.
[deleted]
[deleted]
/u/pumpkin50 What kind of **watches** are you wearing on [Proof](http://i.imgur.com/H4syj98.jpg)? :)
Wow, this is an excellent project! Good work! :)
Thank you so much for taking CS50 outside Harvard through platforms such as Edx!  I first learned about CS50 two years ago (I guess?). I just watched the first lecture you posted online and it felt amazing. It is probably the best lecture I have ever watched (or attended) and you showed me how amazing learning can be!  This year, I'm taking CS50x through Edx (once again, thanks for letting this happen!) and I really hope that I will be able to finish it! I'm kind of doing it while going to collage as a full-time student, so please don't be mad at me if I don't manage to finish all of the job in time and get a certificate. :)
Indeed!   https://soundcloud.com/coltonoscopy
Hello CS50!!   Introductions: (As per AMA rules I will intro. myself and ask a a question) I am a Network Admin. I have finished my BS in IT. Hopefully I will finish my Masters in IT. Currently I work as an Electronic Tester for new Android Scanners. I also get to dabble in the programming and see the programmers, bureaucracy, and development process. Some interesting things about me, I developed a few programs, one was a scheduling program, another was an android dialer. I made my own Security camera system back in the day using a PC.  I want to let you know I'm proud you have a class like CS50 and more power to ya!  This message is for Mr. Milan, What prompted you for a career in computers?  Also David, Rob, Zamyla, Jason, Dan, Gabriel and R.J. /u/davidjmalan /u/rob-cs50 /u/zamyla-cs50 /u/pumpkin50 /u/dan_b_b /u/gablg1 /u/rj-cs50, What tips would you give for success in CS50 and in COmputers? 
[deleted]
So what do you do to relax on saturday nights?
Thanks for the kind words. No formal training, I'm afraid!
Hi CS50, my bad on missing your guys' scheduled AMA meeting time but just throwing you a quick question that might not take too much time :-) As I finish my training in bioengineering I am looking at learning a programming language. Most students here on my campus are using R, working with data, and they're happy how they can model different biochemical processes. Do you know what language is most useful for chemical/biochemical/bioengineers? I'm not even sure if this is too big a generality but thought I'd go ahead! :-) Thank you CS50.  P.S. Recommendations for R vs Python?
Isn't "Mark" just spidering the site, downloading, and then re-presenting the data?
3 years ago I was unemployed and with no college degree nor even HS diploma. I started learning programming and I'm now working as a web and mobile apps developer. I'm 34 years old. Incidentally, it was CS50x that gave me the initial motivation to learn. 
Indeed. Between Harvard Extension School and edX, both of whose student bodies are quite diverse in age, we've certainly met quite a few students who've pivoted in life. If you're the Facebook type, you might want to pose the same question at [facebook.com/groups/cs50](https://www.facebook.com/groups/cs50) to solicit some first-hand stories from students present and past. We've also met some amazing folks through [LaunchCode](http://launchcode.org/cs50) in St. Louis. See [photos.cs50.net/CS50-STL](http://photos.cs50.net/CS50-STL/i-fFjBmd9) for a glimpse of our recent Hackathon there and see [youtu.be/8OFn-cPwsGY](http://youtu.be/8OFn-cPwsGY) for some stories.  I definitely wouldn't shy away for reasons of age. If you find that you take to the material, the marginal returns on just a few programming courses are fairly high. If you Google around for, e.g., [coding bootcamps](https://www.google.com/search?&amp;q=coding+bootcamp) you can also find full-time training opportunities, though those tend to be pricey.   Consider, too, that technology is constantly evolving, and some of today's most popular languages and frameworks didn't even exist a few years ago, so, by that measure, you're necessarily far behind! Certain fundamentals transcend languages and frameworks, though, so a bit of formal training (e.g., one or more courses) can certainly go a long way!  Edit: allow me to link to [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copdbj2) as well!
We are not alone!! :)
Pretty much same story here. I went from unemployed with no degree and not even HS diploma, to working as a web and mobile apps developer within less than 3 years. and it's CS50x that started it all. I don't know if CS50x changed my life, but it definitely heavily contributed to it!
Thanks for the kind post. So glad to hear!  If you might like to elaborate on your background, I imagine folks in [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copcwk5) might love to hear more!
As Rob notes, coming soon (in the form of postmortems on video and sample solutions)!
Agreed! Do see [scratch.mit.edu/help](http://scratch.mit.edu/help/), too, for some great teaching tools, especially these [Scratch cards](http://scratch.mit.edu/help/cards/)!
Thanks for such kind words. And I'll let Rob know. :)  To be honest, a little creativity can go a long way. Before starting grad school, I taught math at a public high school where resources were far from abundant. (As I recall, scaring up whiteboard markers was an ongoing challenge.) So I used to borrow teaching tools as often as I could. For instance, we were able to borrow a "[personal response system](http://i.imgur.com/M2XWuxK.jpg)" (granted, from Harvard) fairly oftenessentially remote controls via which students could electronically answer multiple-choice questions. It was more of a novelty than a fundamentally compelling technology, to be honest, but it did wonders for engagement. Around the time we were discussing the geometry of [kites](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kite_%28geometry%29), I asked a local toy store if they might be able to help out with some actual (flying) kites, which they graciously did. And to this day, we certainly reach out to friends in industry when we need a hand executing some pedagogical vision. For instance, a few years back, Google kindly helped out with some server hardware so that we could steer the course in the direction of virtualization.  I suppose a theme for us, then, has been asking for help! Do drop me an email if CS50 can ever pay it forward!
[deleted]
1. I should disclaim that I'm only generally familiar with professional certifications. As a result, I personally don't ascribe much weight to them on resumes except, on occasion, as a signal of expertise with something with which I'm particularly unfamiliar. For instance, I'm quite uncomfortable with Cisco's [IOS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cisco_IOS) software, so I'd probably take comfort in working alongside someone who *is* Cisco-certified if we've a routing problem to solve. With that said, as a CS undergrad, I'd probably focus on your CS studies (or taking additional or more advanced CS courses) while in school rather than pursuing certifications. 1. Hard to answer without knowing the technology you've in mind. :) Being flexible and well-rounded is certainly valuable, but having depth in one or more areas is probably wise, ideally in some area(s) you particularly enjoy! 1. Afraid I've never tried my hand at competitive programming (and, truth be told, have never found it personally appealing!). But it's not uncommon for universities to field teams for programming competitions, so I would ask around!
I should again disclaim that I'm not particularly familiar with CompTIA or Cisco certifications, but I can say they're not a topic that have come up (for me) in conversations with Silicon Valley-type companies, for what it's worth!
CS50 members THANK you for having responded to my concerns and offer such variety of open courses. I thank you a lot.  THX  /u/davidjmalan  /u/rob-cs50  /u/zamyla-cs50  /u/pumpkin50  /u/dan_b_b /u/gablg1 /u/rj-cs50  When CS50 2015 season begins? and the continuation of CS50 LIVE?
I suspect some data-backed articles online can do this question more justice than I, but web programing (using PHP, Python, Ruby, et al.) and mobile programming (using Java, Objective-C, and potentially Swift) are certainly very much en vogue right now!
None at this time, but potentially in NYC later this year or next!
I'm 33. I've been homeless off and on (roughly every two years or so about 70% of that time on the streets in one form or another) since I was 23. I have an ancient laptop, and go to a coffee shop or a park everyday for power and wifi. I'm a long way from "successful programmer" but there are now enough resources online that I don't really need to worry about getting in to the "right school", or having a degree, or most of the things that would have defined a career a decade ago.   Formal training would still be an improvement, I'm sure it's faster, easier, and always helps to be surrounded by bright, driven people. I think maybe this is why all the forums for cs50 are so active, and it's a great thing. But the actual material, and many of the best opportunities are open, it's just imagining a project worth doing and cracking into it. The advances in AI lately have been REALLY cool, the need for cybersecurity and counter-terrorism has never been higher, and there are still plenty of tasks for which there is no app.  The coolest part of learning coding now are the advances in robotics and the many ways they can change our world in the next 10-20 years, and pretty much everyone taking cs50 is well positioned to program the flitting, buzzing, asteroid mining, package delivering, life-saving, handle-my-light-work future of drone technology. Life expectancy is on the rise as well, so a late start is less an issue than it once might have been. Buckle-up, the future is coming, it moves faster everyday, and it could be pretty awesome.  http://blog.agupieware.com/2014/05/online-learning-bachelors-level.html  http://blog.agupieware.com/2014/06/online-learning-intensive-bachelors.html  These are just a few of the resources available, but these are most of the best (free!) resources for computer science. I feel in many ways that the cat's out of the bag now.   
I was using Linux Mint last year, and I recall having issues.  One was was easier to use than the other,  but I can't recall which, but I did end up figuring out how to use both.  Should I encounter some issues with VMPlayer, I'll give you a holla.
We first opened up CS50 in 2007 by way of [Harvard Extension School](http://www.extension.harvard.edu/courses/intensive-introduction-computer-science), whereby students beyond Harvard College could take the course for credit online (or on campus). We simultaneously made the course available (for free) as OpenCourseWare, posting the same content online at [cs50.tv](http://cs50.tv/) and [extension.harvard.edu/open-learning-initiative](http://www.extension.harvard.edu/open-learning-initiative) and, before long, on [iTunes](https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/this-is-cs50-2014./id953585749) and [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/cs50).  When Harvard and MIT partnered in 2012 to form edX, we volunteered to be among the first courses on [edx.org](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x) as well, admittedly having no idea what that would mean! But that step was very much consistent with the course's trajectory and philosophy around OpenCourseWare more generally. Thankfully, a few years prior, we had introduced the [CS50 Appliance](https://manual.cs50.net/appliance/) so that students tuning into CS50's OpenCourseWare could "play along at home," actively engaging with the course's problem sets without having actual accounts on Harvard's servers. Insofar as the Appliance, by nature of its being client-side software, distributes load across students' own computers, it lent itself to opening the course up all the more. (In fairness, client-side virtual machines are not without headaches, and the CS50 Appliance is, for some students, no exception!) So I wouldn't say that CS50 has been designed for thousands of students as much as it's been designed to be accessible by students on campus and off.  Afraid there are no plans at this time for CS61!
Thanks for the inspiring story :) I'm 24yo woman with no college degree who working as freelance graphic designer. I have no prior experience in programming before. The one and only reason why I joined this course is I do believe that the opportunities has opened. And yeah hopefully this could change my life.
Personally, I'd dive in deeper to algorithms and data structures. For instance, you might like [Princeton's course](https://www.coursera.org/course/algs4partI). And taking one or more courses on [functional programming](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_programming) and/or [object-oriented programming](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming) would have high returns in terms of rounding out your familiarity with some programming fundamentals. Beyond that, I'd poke around to see what areas interest you most (e.g., graphics, networking, operating systems, theory, or any number of other fields)!
When making a decision, I try to determine which decision I would most regret *not* making, and then I make that one!
See [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copdhj2) too!
Quite possibly. Afraid we can only take on so many potential stops initially, so we thought we'd start with cities where there aren't so many similar opportunities!
It could change your life, yes. It certainly did for me! Although in my case I didn't learn all that much from the course (I already had some programming experience prior to taking the course), but what it gave me is a lot of motivation which I lacked at the time and an insatiable desire to learn more. I hope you'll enjoy CS50 as much as I did !
Certainly not an intentional ad. :) Personally, I've never been particularly enamored with the narrative (or even acronym) of MOOCs. Indeed, I daresay CS50's availability via [edx.org](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x) is far more evolutionary for us than revolutionary. We've certainly connected with all the more students as a result, but, per [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copcpw0), CS50 has been available in some form both on campus and online for quite a few years.  But, in recent years, we've certainly embraced and tried to incubate online communities all the more. In 2012, for instance, we first solicited "hello, world" videos from CS50x students, the result of which was [this montage](https://x.cs50.net/hello/), which literally put faces to quite a few names. In retrospect, I regretted not doing as much years prior (having taught courses online for Harvard Extension School since 1999)! Even making (admittedly non-traditional) things like [t-shirts](http://store.cs50.net/) available to students on campus and off has been toward an end of fostering, as best we can, a culture both on campus and off.  Facebook, too, has been an interesting experience for us. When CS50x first debuted in 2012, we noticed that quite a few Facebook groups arose organically, all spawned by students (in various countries and languages). For version 2 of CS50x, we decided to cultivate that community all the more, centralizing everything in an [official Facebook group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/cs50), which now an amazingly active community. Indeed, we decommissioned the course's official forum and transitioned to Facebook and Reddit officially, in hopes of creating communities (and posts) that outlast any given semester, even though both sites are, admittedly, technologically inferior tools for academic discussions.  But the reality is that Facebook transforms names into faces (and newsfeeds), allows students and staff to tag each other (thereby pulling folks into conversations), and more, the result of which (we feel) has been a remarkable net positive in terms of engagement. Indeed, I "know" far more of our online students than ever by nature of our being in the same (virtual) place so often.  This year, we're hoping to blur the line between the course's physical and virtual worlds all the more, as by trying to offer localized office hours and possibly CS50 Hackathons in a number of cities.  Ultimately, I'd say we're quite intrigued by this current trajectory and are curious, experimentally, to see where it might lead!
I'll settle for NYC. Like every other cool event. :)
Ah. Those cerificates are the low hanging fruit of the IT world.      What kind of stuff are Silicon Valley-type companies looking for?
Thanks for sharing this! Yes, I do enjoy this course so much! :) 
I have watched these seminars and using vim for all my works now! thanks for those seminars!
Thank you for your well written reply. :)
Wish I had an actual CS job. That way atleast I'd be happy with my work life. 
/u/rob-cs50 can you pls explain this Uses combination of grayscaling and non-linear filter techniques?
yeah saw that; but its students planning among themselves; I would like to know when staff is planning to visit \n /u/davidjmalan sir?
There must be an echo in here but thank you so much! I'm a bit of a renaissance person and couldn't afford any more school after my second degree, but I love learning and challenging myself!  I'm a working Bay Area developer so this has been a good chance to refresh my skills and (for once yay!) to collaborate. My question is: How do you think computer science has changed over the years, and what do you see happening in the future? 
Thank you so much. I'll definitely keep that in mind. 
I'm not sure if it's success or not, but I started working in programming at age 34 and I'm doing okay for myself. I was self taught because when my mom got her first commodore 64 that was about all you could be. There's always the element of self-teaching with programming because new languages are obsolete half the time before they've even been released...and if you feel you know everything about one piece of hardware, that's okay...each piece of hardware has its own language!  David talks about cascading error messages, which was the most important thing I learned from this course, but no-one mentions cascading skills! You build a website, and the boss wants an app. You build an app, and the boss wants an app for the OTHER platform. And the OTHER one. Once you've sweated through all of that, the boss wants a Facebook app. Most of the time they're hiring based on skill, not age. 
Excellent. Thanks guys!
Thank you :)
*thumbs up*
It really depends on what you want to do with the language. Personally out of these I like C# the most. but I ended up going with Java, which was the language I liked the least, because making Android apps is one of the things I wanted to do and Java is the primary language for Android development. 
Python has some drawbacks, the main one being it's slow. I mean really, really slow. I like Python to write relatively simple scripts where performance doesn't really mater. But for anything more complex and where performance mater other languages are more suited.
Much obliged to get a feedback from your side. These bullets will surely help me out.  Thanks again for making this community a better place :)
Those are official Harvard-sponsored office hours. :)
/u/davidjmalan /u/rob-cs50 /u/zamyla-cs50 /u/pumpkin50, almost missed the AMA! First of all thank you for offering CS50x@edX I am truly enjoying it (except when bugs arise, but that's another story) I love the "Here are the basics, now here is a real life problem in form of a PSet" makes me feel that what I'm learning is not a "Maybe you will use it in the future" but "You can use it to fix problems, and what we show here is just the tip of everything it covers, so go and learn more". And as such I want to ask Do you have any plans on adding another CS courses on edX? And on another unrelated question, Which would be a good next step to learn more about videogame making? Thanks again for the course!
[deleted]
I am in my mid-20's and still trying to decide what I want to do in life. I was top of my class in Computer Science at university but then deferred my studies.  After 4 years of nothing, I'm trying to get back into learning and find a direction to go in.
Where would be the best place to try and create a small group online? Through the Facebook group?  And if you want to find people near you, would that be the place to go and find out? I am quite remote anyway so it's always "lonely".
Hi guys! I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about developing the curriculum and problem sets for CS50. The project-based curriculum is really engaging and seems to have undergone many years of evolution to become such a great set of "stair steps."  How do you go about choosing/revising problem sets and curriculum? Do you believe more broadly that project-centric curriculum should be used in other subjects (math, English) and at other levels (high school, junior high)?
Start out with C or C++. From there you can learn basically everything. 
Hey, as David mentioned, our organization LaunchCode helps people from all kinds of backgrounds get access to opportunity and jobs in technology, most specifically programming. There are some really awesome stories that have come out of this, of people who have overcome a lot of obstacles and changed their lives.  If interested, check out these videos:  [Lee, 40 year old veteran with a disability] (https://vimeo.com/105849002)  [Terrence, 29 year old starting a family] (https://vimeo.com/105848695)  [LaShana, former bus driver from East St. Louis] (https://vimeo.com/113996367)  We have placed people of all ages, education levels, and backgrounds into apprenticeships that have turned into a career. If interested, check out the [LaunchCode website] (https://www.launchcode.org) for more information.
&gt; this thread  instead of node have you tried meteor? 
Thanks for the kind words /u/MeowMeTiger! We're all heroes doing what we can together! I don't think there is a complete searchable list (maybe a good idea for a CS50 project, haha, so meta...) you can browse the [Fair website](http://fair.cs50.net) though, and plenty of CS50x projects are summarized on youtube.  ... energy storage? I'm on it ;)
So glad to hear! Thanks for the kind words. In the works this spring is a new course at [Harvard Business School](http://www.hbs.edu/) designed for MBA students:  http://www.hbs.edu/coursecatalog/1715.html  Also in the works are some variants on these courses!  http://cs.harvard.edu/malan/courses/
At least early on, I'd focus more on ideas than on syntax. Indeed, that's why we introduce [Scratch](http://scratch.mit.edu/) in the first week of [CS50](https://cs50.harvard.edu/), so that we can focus on programming concepts as opposed to programming syntax. Similarly do we spend more time on [visualizations](http://cs.smith.edu/~thiebaut/java/sort/demo.html) and demonstrations of sorting algorithms than on code or even pseudocode.  As a beginner, then, I'd do the same. Look for good visuals and tutorials, followed by simple (and well-commented) coding examples!
1. Let me see if I can dig up a number for your first question. Will follow up if so! 1. If I answered this one, afraid I might spoil a future surprise!
In Fall 2014, there were only two "supersections" toward term's start, the less-comfortable of which is indeed included in CS50x 2015 (aka CS50x3), though it's described as a "section"!
clang essentially supports the same compilation options as gcc, so, certainly for our purposes, it's essentially a drop-in replacement. The essence of its error messages still tend to be worded like gcc's but with additional detail and precision!
Unless you have specialized programming needs, odds are you'd find it doesn't matter, at least if using a popular distribution with up-to-date tools and language libraries! See http://distrowatch.com/dwres.php?resource=major for some comparisons!
1. Best to direct this one to our friends at LaunchCode, info@launchcode.org. 1. No plans just yet, but see http://cs.harvard.edu/malan/courses for some additional OpenCourseWare!
Thanks for the kind words! Diving into some project of personal interest definitely tends to have high returns. As for classes, see [this post](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copxxfs)!
No plans just yet for CS51, but see [this post](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copxxfs) for some courses!
If graduating already with a BA, another undergraduate degree (BS) probably wouldn't be a typical next step. An MS, though, might require at least some academic background in CS, depending on the program, in which case some post-baccalaureate studies in CS followed by an MS might be of interest!
Coupled with an on-site teacher, following CS50's curriculum is certainly an option (which I say, of course, with some bias!). I'm not sure students would find CS50 easier than the AP curriculum, though, but we do hope it engages all the more!
Can't say I've ever done that. :)
Not sure just yet!
Thanks for the kind words. Tough to say with confidence without seeing their syllabi, but my default advice would be to take whichever one is more rigorous and seems to offer you higher returns. I might hazard a guess that the object-oriented class might offer such but really depends on how each is taught!
A while back, writing correct [multi-threaded](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thread_(computing)#Multithreading) code was probably the hardest challenge. More recently, it took me a while to get used to [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/)'s single-threaded asynchronous model.  As for math, it really depends. Certain aspects of CS (and, in turn, programming) certainly require an understanding of certain areas of math (e.g., discrete math, linear algebra, et al.). But generally speaking, comfort with arithmetic and algebra alone goes a long way!
Finding a local support structure can definitely help motivate. You might want to reach out to folks via https://www.facebook.com/groups/cs50, which tends to draw students from all over the world!
Well said!
We hope so! Do dive into Week 0 and Problem Set 0 to see what you think!
It's been a while since I've had current favorites, but my all-time favorite is probably [Super Mario Bros. 3](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Mario_Bros._3)!
Hi, Noah. Matter of tuition aside, the best option might be to take it through [Harvard Extension School](http://www.extension.harvard.edu/courses/intensive-introduction-computer-science), through which we're able to provide students with a dedicated TF, weekly feedback, and more. See [this chart](http://cdn.cs50.net/2015/x/references/compare/compare.html) to compare CS50's other options!
Memories certainly abound (cf. [photos.cs50.net](http://photos.cs50.net/)), but particularly special for me were seeing the [first-ever CS50 Fair](http://photos.cs50.net/CS50-Fair-2008) come together in 2008 and our [CS50 Hackathon in St. Louis with LaunchCode](http://youtu.be/F1kIFw-e0AI) last year!
:) No plans just yet!
I made a (C-based) program via which students could sign up for time slots on computers in one of Harvard's computer labs. I still remember when it broke on New Year's Eve because of some bad decision I made involving dates. :)
Thanks for the kind words.  1. Hopefully one of the returns of CS50 is a better understanding of technology more generally. Indeed, odds are you should be able to follow [CS50 Live's recent discussion of some security flaws](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=azYT8Fp4Hug)! 1. See https://cs50.harvard.edu/apply for potential opportunities!
Possibly! But no timeframe just yet!
Thanks for the kind words. See [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copxxfs) for some suggestions!
I'd try to develop some campus-specific applications that pique students' interest (and solve actual problems!). For instance, CS50 maintains its own [course-catalog tool](https://courses.cs50.net/). You could also create a calendaring app for events on campus. Or something like [Datamatch](http://www.hcs.harvard.edu/wiki/Datamatch)!
See [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copcgs1) for some thoughts from Rob and Gabe!
See [this chart](http://cdn.cs50.net/2015/x/references/compare/compare.html) for some options, including office hours!
See  * http://cdn.cs50.net/2014/fall/lectures/0/f/src0f/  * http://cdn.cs50.net/2013/fall/lectures/0/f/src0f/  for some that we tend to demo in class. (Capitalized ones tend to be written by students.)
See [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copxxfs) for some suggestions!
It really varies by student, to be honest. But pointers tend to be among most challenging topic for many!
Allow me to reference [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wbq9f/hello_world_this_is_cs50_with_david_j_malan_rob/copxxfs)!
You might want to connect with CS50 via [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/cs50/), [Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/r/cs50), or [Twitter](https://twitter.com/cs50)!
Now my interest is peaked at who might be coming to guest lecture.
Holy crap, I actually [made something like this](http://rupp.herokuapp.com)! It's a class review site and it got about 180,000 views just this term!  However, I never considered using it as a marketing tool for CS. Students are definitely using it, so we might as well show them 'this is what you can do with CS!'  I think the course-catalog tool is a good next app! Thanks sir!  P.S.: OMG Sir David Malan actually replied to me *fanboy jumping up and down* Thank you for doing what you do sir. Extending that to the whole team that makes CS50 possible as well! You guys are awesome 'nuff said.
Ha!!!!!!!!!! I spent days and night during school holidays playing at it at a friend's place :) I had a mega drive :basically I played sonic 2 and Street of rage 3 for years...and FIFA 94'(don't search the logic in that) until my brother got a playsation, and we both together FFVII. And my life changed :)... Gosh I have to buy the PS4, her little sis are waiting for her!
Honestly, passed a certain number of data you're dealing with, pretty much all languages that are made to deal with clustering, plots, research, Python being one if it, the answer comes way longer after you launched the program. I like your username btw :)
I have a java freak and a c# freak as..the family I chose. I knew it was  a bad idea, but I asked the c# freak what he thought I should go with after C (he knows me, my level, my weird thinking etc....) He said one word about cpp being so much easier to use, the java freak heard that, and now we live in a post apocalyptic word :) Thou shalt not bring some topics on the table with those people! :)
No Blizzard game? (I think it's less mainstream in the US than the rest of the world..) Like Diablo, Diablo II, III.. i could picture you with some of the staff on a Starcraft II vs. I personally had my days of Quake 3 arena during my time in college. Best lans I ever had so far! In a 18m dorm room, with 9 people in it, no sleep, good ol' times! 
I know right? :)
You think that's bad ? Try telling a Ruby "freak" that Python is better. Or don't, unless you want it to be the catalyst for world war 3.  Kidding aside, Java is definitely easier than C++ to use in many aspects. With C++, a lot of responsibility and burden is on the shoulders of the programmer, while with Java, a lot of this is taken care of by the system.
Oh my..the ruby vs python and Java vs...the rest of the world is an neverending story (so far) . It's more about the fact that I ,personally am not a big fan of Java's system. I guess it's a bit of a trauma. On the other hand, to develop an app for tablets or phone, it's either Java or obj C. It's the let it go part and just dive in and see what happens that scares me, and I cannot say why for the life of me!
I found it! Best use of P =NP ===&gt; How to understand women! This is not the most exciting use of it, but I'm sure you'll be loaded. If you solve P = NP , that is :)
There are other alternatives than Java or Objective C to develop mobile apps. There is Xamarin that let you write apps for Android and iOS in C#, but Xamarin is not free and quity pricy. There is a free version but too limited to be of much use outside of just trying it out. If making a game, Unity let you write code in C# and port it to any platform. There is also RubyMotion that let you write iOS, Android and OS X apps in Ruby (I really like this one). And PhoneGap let you write Android and iOS apps with html/css/javascript, though it's not quite the same as apps running in native code.  There is probably more, but these are the ones I am familiar with. Also for iOS there is Swift now, which is much better than Objective C. Only reason to learn Objective C at this point is to be able to maintain already existing code. to make new apps, Swift is a better alternative. 
Can't use any of those: Need to first by an external HDD to backup all my data to format and install windows 7 and a debian/Red hat linux os. Android.bat and several other bat files don't execute on my laptop. even when you open it change the lines that basically allow any user anyways to execute it, it won't. it's not evena windows 8.1 (puke) issue, it's... something I didn"'t even find on stackoverflow which is an answer by itself. Which makes it hard to actualy code on my laptop, outside of a vm. Which sucks, since I don't intend to allocate more RAM to the vm regarding the fact that I already need it for my usual everyday use...
Thank you!
I've heard plenty, and they all boil down to pretty much the same story: hard work &gt; success.
Thank you!
[deleted]
I have Ubuntu already installed using VM ware on my Windows 7 machine. What can I do now? I can't uninstall it since it is for the work purpose. 
Im looking forward to the day CS51 becomes available! CS50 in one word was just AWSOME! Absolutely loved the content but also inspired my university to adapt a similar online format to present the information given in the lectures. I have just one question remaining how can I further contribute to the course?
