Still doesn't say if it will include the guidelines or not. 
Well then it's a good thing that due to the DCMA ISPs have safe harbor and are not responsible for content transferred over it's service. So it's a moot point.
Because it isn't a bill, it is a federal bureau choosing to exercise powers that have already been granted to it by Congress a long while ago. The same way that federal agencies have always acted in this country.  There are a lot of people that are purposefully misleading the public by suggesting that, because this new regulation has not yet been made public, there is something dark and sinister about it. This really is a case of business as usual in Washington DC. No conspiracies here.
I meant CPU power in general, however in recent years progress has declined a tad.   as /u/PsychedSy pointed out they have been focusing on increasing cores in recent years, however adding an extra core is not the same as doubling performance, since there is some scheduling overhead. Applications need to be threaded to gain the performance. Most don't do this it makes programming harder to do.
the fact that they charge an insane amount is more because of lack of competition (as I said) than it is because bandwidth is unlimited, which it REALLY is not.  The reason why they charge you an insane amount is simple. You can't switch, so they can screw you as hard as they want, and still you won't go to the competition.
How will this affect the average person?
[deleted]
Could you explain how that makes it a moot point?  The ISP is protected from what the user decided to do with their internet connection, but that doesn't mean the ISP is protected from providing an additional service.
This explains why the Pentium 4 is so common place in laptops and PC's sold in the last 5 years.
Yep.  They are faster and cheaper than Fios in my area, and their support is decent.  I've used them for over 10 years with no complaints.
There may be good reason that the final draft is not released to the public before it is voted on.   I can imagine that if it was public before it was voted on, it would make it very easy for corporate interest to hold the voters accountable to that vote. As in, they can buy out and intimidate the voters in order to get the voters to do exactly what benefits them most. If the final draft is not made public, there is much uncertainty on whether the bill's passing would be more beneficial to them than it not passing. Basically, that uncertainty may push them to not try to buy out or intimidate the voters in fear of shooting themselves in the foot. This may not always work perfectly, but I see this as a logical possible explanation for the practice of keeping it private until it is voted on.  Transparency is great, but there are some places where transparency serves to increase the power of corporate interest.
that's what the comment period is for...which follows the vote....which has a vote after it to determine if it becomes policy. this is the process, you make a proposal, the proposal is voted on, if it passes there is a public comment period, then it is put to a vote to become policy, if it fails the vote (like the last one did) then a new proposal is made and voted on (that's where we are now) and if that passes another comment period (comming up) and then another vote (still ahead) this is a process, this is the process every policy proposal takes, relax, calm yourself...breathe...and wait.
Man, how are people so blind? Oh well, enjoy all those new taxes and regulations. Yes we can!!!!
How has John Oliver affected your field of work?
Thanks for telling me what to say. lol
I'm just expressing the concerns of Dear Leader, who stated this in 2007.   *Congress and the public have the right to review any specific proposal and decide whether or not it constitutes sound policy. And the commission has the responsibility to defend any new proposal in public discourse and debate.* **Barack Hussein Obama (PBUH)**   *One month later, Obama co-sponsored bipartisan legislation* requiring the FCC to open a 90-day window for comment on new rules prior to a commission vote for implementation.  What happened between then and now? Oh yes, I know. He was swept up into power. One day some of you will see...
[deleted]
[deleted]
"There is no precedent or solid argument that indicates the Federal government should be interested in helping ISPs to the detriment of content providers."  Such a precedent or argument is not necessary, as I am not asking the government to "help" anyone do anything. Indeed, it is the NN proponents that are trying to bring government into this. Seems that you have this inverted.   Also, equating a competitive advantage like improved speed to a "monopoly" is fallacious. Companies *constantly* work in concert in every industry to provide customers of one service with discounted access or special deals to another service. The reason you've seen no regulation against such cooperation is because it is good for customers, not anti-competitive.   "To another of your points, there is no precedent demonstrating that ISPs would be making actual fast-tracks rather than simply throttling down content creators who don't pay for "fast lane" usage."  This is another area in which I think you completely miss the point. The legislation, as we are told, specifically BANS fast-tracks, not punitive throttling. The language is very clear on this. Why bother stating your doubt that fast tracks would exist, if that's what you are banning anyhow?  Obviously, the NN advocates believed fast tracks (rather than punitive throttling) were the issue. [And, contrary to your statement, the industry is rife with examples. Paid peering has been around for years, with the key element being paid access to private "fast" ports - of which there are many, many thousands. http://www.digitalsociety.org/2010/12/video-level-3-versus-comcast-peering-dispute/ This is essentially no different than paying to take a short-cut along a private toll road - these ports are NOT open to general traffic when not in use, in the same way a first-class seat isn't given to economy passengers if it's not filled when the plane takes flight. There's a very real and legitimate argument that no throttling takes place, just how economy passengers don't have the quality of their seat affected whether a first class ticket is bought or not.]  "They are obviously not interested in increasing their revenue (either consumer-side or business-side) through increasing speed."  That's an opinion, and even if TRUE, it wouldn't justify the rules proposed. If anything, NN should be about strengthening the ability of new up-and-coming companies to form ISPs and compete. The opposite will result from this legislation: it will be onerous on the established ISPs, but they will pass compliance costs on to their customers. Challenging them now, however, will require even more budget, and will eliminate niche challengers that could excel in delivering a specific service along a priority connection, but would be beaten overall.   The internet was not broken. This does not help it.       
What the hell does this article or facility have to do with the detention clause in the NDAA?  The main story took place in 2006, 6 years before the detention clause was added to the NDAA, and their other source claimed that this place functioned in a similar manner at least another 6 years before that, before 9/11 even happened.  Furthermore, they act like being held for 6 hours before booking is some great stretch of indefinite detention; It's not even outside of the norm for most cities.  There is no set time limit for how long a suspect can be detained without being booked, the law simply states "A reasonable amount of time", whatever that is, but in a large city booking can take 8 hours or more.    Now obviously if the beatings and poor treatment is true then the place sounds like shit, but I'm afraid I am going to have to take the claims of just a few individuals with a grain of salt.    The other poster is right, this is grasping at straws at best.  
"the free market" is a talking point you'll no doubt have often trumpeted by most political figures, but they are paying lip service to the old concept of: "laissez faire" french for "let it be" American for: "leave my shit the fuck alone" referring to market/economy/business practices. This literally helped start the industrial revolution, and the formation of the middle class (these are good things). This came from the birth of classical liberal thought (the reason slavery ended) Unfortunately since that time governments, typical of their nature have done nothing but encroach on the things it did not control, so they can collect their taxes. And now the more modern way is contributions from patronizing corporations, such as big telecom/finance/medical. [Laissez Faire] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laissez-faire)
[most terrifying words](http://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/quotes/r/ronaldreag128358.html)
No distinction for ISP's. There will be no law forcing google to send spam.
 http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2xdsdw/the_internet_is_safe_we_are_a_group_of_a_few_net/coznvua  http://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-adopts-strong-sustainable-rules-protect-open-internet  
The money is there (at least for the larger ISPs.) They make enormous profits year after year and let their networks become relics.
That's not the document.  It's the summary of the document.    Do you trust the summary to contain all the rules?
I don't trust you to read the rules.   Anyway, this is how the FCC operates. All of the rules will be open for a comment period long before they go into effect (or are even voted into place.) If you don't like it, petition congress to change how the FCC can operate.  Far more likely, you just want to find *something* about the net neutrality ruling to bitch about.
Then where the fuck are the damn rules?!?!  You haven't linked the rules.  Read what you linked then go on a search for the actual document.  You won't find it because they don't want comment.  Something is hiding in that document they don't want you to see.  
Right, because "everything the government has ever done is bad" is the intellectual high ground here.
I think you didn't understand the comment.  He's saying that *the law requires* another public comment period and proposal anytime the text is released to the public.  Meaning if they released the rules, they would not have been allowed to hold a vote.  They'd have had to take comments for a while (like they did before this), revise their rules, and come up with a proposal... which they would then have had to either vote on without releasing, or release and repeat the process.  An endless loop.  He also said it's "crazy" that the law is written this way.  In other words, he directly said that this is *not good*.  Yet you responded by claiming he said it was good. and now you're flying off on a rant based on that delusion.  &gt; The problem is that the American people do not want net neutrality, so they have to hide the rules so that they aren't made public too quickly, because they are fixing something that wasn't broken.  Now we see why you deluded yourself in the first place - because it's what you wanted to believe all along, apparently.  In here you're making some false claims which you seem to think are true.  The key misconception you have is that old silly "fixing what's not broken" lie, when what the FCC is doing is protecting the status quo, keeping approximately the same set of rules that we've always had.  It got "broken" when the telco's got the previous version of their net neutrality order thrown out in court last year, specifically because that rule was not Title II and the court said it needs to be.  Some of the biggest ISPs (including Comcast) are already under legal agreements to follow net neutrality for a few more years due to settlements for some past wrongdoing, and besides they weren't going to rock the boat during this rulemaking process and get everyone upset at them for exploiting a temporary lack of net neutrality rules.  So net neutrality rules have been in force in one way or another all along, and the FCC is trying to ensure that continues.  It's the telcos who are trying to "fix" what isn't broken.
Because blindly trusting your government will always do the right thing is such a good idea, right? See I can put words in your mouth too.
relax...breathe...the FCC is doing exactly that...they haven't voted for implementation, they have voted for recommendation...then there is the comment period, then there is the vote for implementation. this doesn't all happen at once, it takes time, there is a process. it's easy to get impatient when you are all worked up, so just relax.
It's been answered sufficiently. There's no need to scan the several clauses/legal justifications. The *actual* text of the rules has been closely read and scrutinized. 
[deleted]
I can only hope a lot of these people are really young. I'd hate to think their my age and still this naive about the government.
Haha, you won't get an answer here.
Yeah I figured. I would be willing to bet most of their funding comes from the government so they can "advocate" for policies obama wants. 
The Rules are called "Communications Act of 1934, Title 2". Those are published and well-known. Verizon already adheres to them in their copper-based telephone service. The document that's "secret" is a Proposal to regulate the internet under the same rules, and it's only "secret" because it hasn't been published, because regulatory agencies are required by congressional law to include dissenting opinions as part of regulatory proposals. Commissioners Amit and O'Reilly are required to submit their dissenting opinions before the "secret" proposal document is made public. Then you've got 60 days to make a stink about it before the final vote.  This is called "Procedure", welcome to the world of beurocracy.
So no, you don't know what's in the 230+ page document  but you blindly support it regardless.  You're a smart one...
"FCC can't publish something because they have to jump through congressional hoops"  "So you are saying they caused 9/11?"
You're the one cheering them on when you don't even know what you're cheering.  It could be good or it could be bad.  Past performance says that it's probably not good and potentially really, really bad.
I'm saying you don't know what the fuck you're cheering so you sound like a complete idiot right now.  You might be justified or you might be totally wrong.  You don't know until those 235 pages are released.  Who gives a rat's ass about procedure.  You don't know the end result and that's all that matters.
It's a scary thought, knowing how many people take government officials' promises as gold. Time and time again, scandals and corruptions, lies after lies and they STILL think government involvement is smart and progressive for the nation. I do hope they grow out of that mentality as I have.
If their summary they released on their website is entirely dishonest, then yes I will be wrong. But I don't plan on reading any of the 235 pages anyway as they apply to companies and not me. So, for me the summary is as much reassurance as they could possibly give me.  As another user already posted, the rules aren't actually 235 pages. The 235 pages is justifications, and legal bullshit.   But yeah maybe their summary is completely misleading and maybe they caused 9/11.
&gt;Past performance says that it's probably not good and potentially really, really bad.  Any support for this claim?  Can you point to the past instances when the FCC has opted to support net neutrality?  
Can you show me the 235 pages?
Huh?  I'm "trying to make this a partisan issue"?  I didn't even allude to any political parties.  You really seem to have a pattern of reading things into comments, that aren't there.  Whatever chip you have on your shoulder, stop pretending people are saying the things you would assume they would say in your imagination.  Please quote exactly what in my comment is "trying to make this a partisan issue".  If you think /u/fightforthefuture is mistaken about how the law works, respond to them and say why.  Don't argue with me about whether they got it wrong.  And don't pretend they argued that transparancy is bad.  They very clearly did no such thing.  That's just you imagining people saying things they never did, perhaps because you have some hard-set ideas in your head about what other people think and you don't bother to read what they actually wrote.
Pfft. You ignore all logic and focus on the petty. The pages will be released in good time. You give baseless claims because of personal bias and ignore any counter arguments that stump you.   You want them to release documents that you will never read. And when they release the pages you will find something else to bitch about.
It doesn't matter what any individual does with that service. It matters what the service will provide versus what it advertises or charges you for. They charge for X speed over 30 days, but only give you enough data cap to use X speed for 10 days. That's getting ripped off by my accounting.  If you have a family that's primary breadwinners are split between early morning shifts and second shift work with a couple kids in there as well, it's easy to have an active connection for 20 hours a day quite frequently. If you stream your shows instead of paying for high tier cable television and a fancy demod box, you could be streaming quite a lot. I know this because it's my current situation, and I'm at about 90% of my monthly 250GB allotment with 2 days left in the billing cycle. My kids love Magic School Bus, Farscape, and Disney Jr. We stream a lot from Netflix and Hulu.
[deleted]
The market hasnt failed, government intervention on a free market causes it to fail. 
Take a little Google trip about natural monopolies some time pal.   As much as everyone loves to spread fud about local government granted monopolies, exclusive franchise agreements were banned decades ago.
You don't need net neutrality if you have healthy competition and unfortunately in my area the competition isn't healthy.   
for sure Rome United States Nero Obama Spartans not Izzo Brave New World
Someone who's defected to the enemy and captured on the field of battle is not the same as a regular American citizen. By that account holding Confederate soldiers as POWs was illegal too.
&gt;No, he believed that Russia wouldn't extradite him back to the USA.  No, Vladimir Putin himself in an interview said that when he met Snowden he was asked to join him in his fight for human rights, which Putin declined. Putin went on to call Snowden "a strange guy".  Snowden has also made statements such as:  Russia[has] my gratitude and respect for being the first to stand against human rights violations carried out by the powerful rather than the powerless. By refusing to compromise their principles in the face of intimidation, [Russia has] earned the respect of the world.  Meanwhile, he's speaking out for freedom of the press... meanwhile, Russia's freedom of the press is terrible and he's keeping his mouth shut about that. There are many, many articles with even Russian dissidents calling him a hypocrite, such as:  http://pando.com/2014/01/16/edward-snowden-demands-press-freedom-for-journalists-who-dont-live-or-work-in-russia/  http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/snowdens-hypocrisy-on-russia/2014/02/07/23c403c2-8f51-11e3-b227-12a45d109e03_story.html  http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2013/06/errors-edward-snowden-global-hypocrisy-tour  http://www.smh.com.au/comment/julian-assange-edward-snowden-hypocrites-over-vladimir-putin-ecuador-20131104-2wx5n.html  &gt;... but the US revoked his passport and now he's stuck there.  He asked for, and received, asylum in Russia.
&gt;You admit that there is a mass domestic surveillance program being used  &gt;to prosecute Americans for petty crimes (not terrorism).   No, there's surveillance of foreign drug operations that occasionally reveals specific information about American drug runners. This information was passed on to law enforcement agencies that had jurisdiction; the source of the information was concealed to keep the existence of the foreign operation secret. &gt;At the same time you deny that there is any program of domestic  &gt;servailance.  This wasn't domestic surveillance, as your own article states." It was created in 1994 to combat Latin American drug cartels....Wiretap tips forwarded by the SOD usually come from foreign governments, U.S. intelligence agencies or court-authorized domestic phone recordings. Because warrantless eavesdropping on Americans is illegal, tips from intelligence agencies are generally not forwarded to the SOD until a caller's citizenship can be verified, according to one senior law enforcement official and one former U.S. military intelligence analyst.'They do a pretty good job of screening, but it can be a struggle to know for sure whether the person on a wiretap is American,' the senior law enforcement official said."  &gt;straight out of George Orewel's 1984. DoublePlusUnGood!  And if we were playing Reddit Bingo, I'd have just gotten the box in the center with "1984". 
If a company provides a service that is so good no one can compete then they deserve a monoply, however when government creates monoplies thats when we have a problem
Jesus Christ. Did you study history in school? How can you seriously say that?
Good luck with your isp.  They'll block you for spam but not legit mail.  Check their tos.
What point in history are you referring to? If you are referring to the railroad monopolies those were built and subsidized by the government. 
There are tons of examples just take a look at the anti-trust page on Wikipedia. Standard oil, AT&amp;T, etc.
[deleted]
The FCC published the text of the Open Internet order today, you can now read it: http://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-releases-open-internet-order
You went back a week for this?  That's dedication...
Does this stop the ability of ISPs to enact data caps on people? I would cry if Verizon data caped my internet. I game like all the time.  Also, if this vote failed, could ISPs charge individual users to have their most visited site load faster?
In layman's terms, what did this ruling accomplish? 
is there any precedent for net neutrality ?
What is a good response to idiots referring to Net Neutrality as "ObamaNet"? (aside from flipping them the bird)
Yesterday's Open Internet order granted the strongest net neutrality protections ever to broadband users - whether they connect via wired broadband or mobile connection.  What does that mean?  Your internet service provider may not interfere with your access to the lawful sites and services of your choice. It may not strike special deals with web content providers to selectively speed up, slow down, throttle, or block specific content.  In short, control over your Internet experience rests with the users, where it belongs. 
It does not, but it does create a process at the FCC where this practice can be challenged as unreasonable.  Public Knowledge has long encouraged the FCC to actually collect information on these data cap policies because they can be used in a harmful way.  A challenge under the new Net Neutrality rules is a possibility, but this is why we needed rules and a cop on the beat. -Chris/PK
What legal safeguards are in place to prevent the FCC from interfering in peering arrangements?   If there are no such prohibitions, why will the transfer of bandwidth costs from BigContent to BigTelco not result in either higher fees for consumers or lower capital expenditure on network capacity by telcos?
Now that the internet is classified as a public utility, what's to stop the FCC from censoring content they deem inappropriate?
The concepts behind net neutrality can actually be traced back to roman law.  The core idea that some types of private infrastructure (think bridges, ferries, rail roads,  telephone networks) are so important that they have to treat everyone equally has gotten us far.  -weinberg
How is your organization planning for the inevitable law suit the major ISPs are anticipated to file to overturn the FCC reclassification? What can consumers do in the mean time to solidify support to keep the net neutral? 
Well, there's a lot of mistrust of Obama out there, and I think that's valid and we need to respect it. That said, this "ObamaNet" stuff is way off base. [Brad Feld's response is the best I've seen so far](http://feld.com/archives/2015/02/final-thoughts-fcc-title-ii-ahead-tomorrows-vote-net-neutrality.html). He's a notable startup investor who's participated in many of the fights against overblown Internet regulation (like SOPA). And I think he's both empathetic and respectful of the conservative perspective on this, while also delivering a thorough debunking of these "ObamaNet" claims.
It merely restored the ability of the FCC to ensure that the internet continues to operate the way users have come to expect - you have a connection, you are able to access what you want at the same speed without interference from the broadband carriers that you pay to connect you.    This was the de facto status of the internet until a court ruling in 2010. Comcast was blocking access to certain sites, and when the FCC told them not to, they said "you can't tell us what to do" - and a court decided that was true. That opened the door, legally, for Comcast to do whatever they wanted to whichever sites they wanted, whether for $$$ reasons or just on a whim.    So the last 5 years have been a hard scramble to reestablish that authority to the FCC - not the govt taking control, but merely a cop on the beat so that if they see providers bullying or playing favorites, they can step in and remind them they have to play fair.
It is good news to have the "Bright Line Rules" but how do we get protected further from the "dark lines"?
The first step in planning for the lawsuit was to make sure the rules and order were as bulletproof as possible. A lot of our work over the last year as been to make sure that the way the rules were crafted were as strong as the rules themselves.  Assuming the FCC's rules are what they signaled they are (no one has seen them yet), we will start morphing our arguments to FCC into arguments to the DC Circuit.  But we won't quite know how to formulate arguments until an ISP actually decides to sue.  -weinberg
The parts of Title II that the FCC left with authority over broadband doesn't deal with content.  Open Internet/Net Neutrality rules are about keeping an eye on Internet Service Providers, or the folks who give you access to the net, not content.  It deals with traffic flow, not traffic decency.   Also, the public utility label is a misconception.  Title II deals with services that are not public utilities before this ruling, like mobile voice.  That's just a label opponents are using to scare folks.  -Chris/PK
In general, are you and fellow net neutrality advocates, satisfied with the rules put in place by FCC? And to add to that question, are there any parts of the new rules which you are dissatisfied with?
What's the worst case scenario for this now?  Can defeat be snatched from the jaws of victory?  Next week, next year, in ten years?
Well, Title II was just what we needed to do in order to ensure that net neutrality regulations would hold up in court. It wasn't an end in itself. And the rules we got don't use *all* the FCC's Title II powers. They just do the minimum to make sure ISPs don't mess with your Internet. No blocking. No throttling.   But the short answer to your question is: us! If they started doing that, the same forces that got these net neutrality rules passed (including the reddit community) would band together and stop them. I mean, the FCC could do all kinds of batshit crazy things. But they won't, because we're here.
Thank you both very much for the response! With all the different terminology (as well as not knowing all the particulars of the case) it really helps me understand how important this truly was. Thanks again!
For more on the Not Actually a Public Utility situation, see https://www.publicknowledge.org/news-blog/blogs/title-ii-is-not-net-neutrality-and-net-neutrality-is-not-utility-regulation -Kate/PK
Well, the Internet isn't exactly classified as a public utility now. Broadband access services are now classified under Title II of the Communications Act, which some people assume means utility because that's how landline telephone service regulated. But it's the same for cell phone voice service, and we don't really think of those as utilities at all, right?   Anyway, to answer the second part of your question, the move from the FCC yesterday put rules in place that prevent ISPs (Comcast, etc.) from blocking, throttling or engaging in "paid prioritization" (which is where you can pay to have your content delivered more quickly). It doesn't give the FCC any authority to censor content at all. 
we are satisfied with the rules as they have been described publicly by the FCC.  They have given us every indication that these are robust rules based on strong authority.  That being said, the details really matter and we won't be able to see the details until the FCC releases the full text of the order.    That probably won't happen for a few weeks.  The dissenting votes need to get in their written dissents, and then the FCC needs to formally respond to them.
To pile on, in case this was was the question, we've had net neutrality rules in place in the US for much of the history of the Internet. Verizon sued to get the rules struck down, so we didn't have them for much of this year.  In other words, net neutrality is the way the Internet has always worked, and net neutrality rules are not a new thing.
Wheeler actually put it really well yesterday when he said, to paraphrase, "Net Neutrality is no more regulation of the Internet than   the First Amendment is regulation speech."
Does Net Neutrality mean I get MORE cat videos? I like cat videos...
Public Knowledge has a blog post up (https://www.publicknowledge.org/news-blog/blogs/what-happens-now-with-net-neutrality) that talks about the different ways net neutrality opponents will challenge these rules.    The silver lining is that nothing happens without a public process in Congress (in the near future) or at the FCC (if there was ever an FCC opposed to net neutrality).  This means the public can rise up to oppose repealing the rules at every turn.    If we learn anything from this last year is, the people's voices matter in policy debates when we speak up in VOLUME!  -Chris/PK
PK's Harold Feld had a good response to this: https://www.publicknowledge.org/press-release/public-knowledge-condemns-fcc-commissioner-pais-elitist-insult-to-american-  The plain facts speak for themselves. More than 4 million Americans pushed Chairman Wheeler to reconsider his first proposal in May. Tech startups and small businesses have filed in droves insisting that reclassifying broadband as Title II and adopting strong net neutrality rules is key to their ability to continue to create new jobs and new technologies. Civil rights organizations and consumer organizations have emphasized the critical importance of reclassifying broadband and adopting strong net neutrality rules to civic engagement and economic opportunity. Polls show that Democrats and Republicans alike support strong net neutrality rules.  Additionally, every President in the last 30 years has weighed in publicly with the FCC on issues of national importance. President Obama has not violated the independence of the FCC by making his support for strong net neutrality rules under Title II public.  It is insulting to the American people, who have participated in the net neutrality debate in unprecedented numbers and spoken with unmistakable clarity across the political spectrum, to call Chairman Wheelers proposal Obamas Plan. It's not "Obama's plan," its the plan of 4 million Americans.   -Meredith
As to what consumers can do, it may sound cliche, but every voice counts.  When the inevitable pushback comes from the big ISPs, just stay loud and remind Washington that users are keeping watch and WANT this, and will back them on this.
YAAAS! Because this will promote more competition and allow an equal playing field making it so Grumpy Cat can't cut a deal with ISP to be a priority and be your only options for cats! 
Sure. 
Since the FCC's ruling maintains the open Internet what do you feel will be done to help expand competition/access to affordable High Speed Internet? Would unbundling be an option?
We'd add that  yesterday's outcome was a demonstration of just how much every voice matters. In May 2014, the FCC was set to surrender core net neutrality principles by allowing paid prioritization.   The unprecedented outpouring of public sentiment changed that.  Never doubt the power of people to organize for change - we don't win every battle, but when we win, we win big.
The FCC has announced that, if someone brings a complaint, they will examine an interconnection agreement under a "just and reasonable" standard.  This is a standard that has decades of case law behind it, much of which designed to prevent FCC overreach.  It is important for the FCC to be able to step in precisely to avoid situations where the ISPs can use their gatekeeper roles shake down all content creators.  -weinberg 
Everything PK said is correct. But since you raise the question of FCC decency enforcement, recent Supreme Court decisions largely eliminated the FCC's decency regulations. 
What did it mean in the FCC meeting yesterday that Pai and O'Reilly did not allow "reviews" or something like that? Does this further delay seeing the actual rules?
Overlooked yesterday was a second FCC ruling that expands access, the Community Broadband ruling.  This was where the FCC approved petitions from local officials in Chattanooga, TN and Wilson, NC to overturn state restrictions the local government building high speed networks.  This is huge for access!  The incumbent private companies were not building out.  When this happens, its great to see local governments create economic development projects (sometimes public-private partnerships with ISPs) to make sure their citizens have access to high speed broadband.    Hope we see more local governments take charge and help their citizens!  Chris/PK
So is that all it does?  I think I need an ELI5 on this.
But Seriously... Couldn't a "Pay-to-Play Internet" spin off from the "Neutral Internet"... just like free roads vs. toll roads... where premium content (Netflix as an example and "premium" subject to interpretation) can only be found on the "Pay-to-Play Internet"? 
[deleted]
How do you feel that an overexposed cellphone image of some lady's dress is getting as much reddit attention as Net Neutrality?
[deleted]
"editorial privileges" normally after the FCC votes on something the bureau (one of the subsections of the FCC) reserves the right to edit it and make small changes as need be.  No one can remember anyone ever objecting to this in the past. The objection to editorial privileges should not delay the rule since the fully FCC voted to allow them.   Once the dissenting commissioners (the ones that voted against the rule) get their final written dissent in, the FCC is required to respond to the points in the dissent before the order is final.  Those responses are incorporated into final report that goes along with the rules.  -weinberg
Yeah, municipal fiber is a really important fight, one that we're excited about. Unbundling makes a ton of sense to us too (and we had it, until Michael Powell's FCC sold us all out!)   But we'll need to build towards that. That's a big lift.
I mean, if you're into that, sure. There's already cable TV?
Net neutrality got enough attention to get a strong rule passed.  As far as I'm concerned, after that the internet can debate whatever it wants.  -weinberg
Haha. There's almost something poetic about it. [I came across this story this morning] (https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/what-two-runaway-llamas-taught-us-net-neutrality-dylan-tweney) and it seems to sum things up pretty well.   But ultimately we need to keep growing this movement. Winning Net Neutrality was awesome, but now we have to protect it. And we have tons of other things to accomplish in the world of tech and media policy. So it's fine to become obsessed with llamas and overexposed dresses, as long as you also step up and fight for our rights to connect and communicate. :)
We fight for the Internet because people use it for the most unexpected things. (Including unprecedented victories over corporate power like the one yesterday!)  We wouldn't have it any other way.
Isn't that part of what makes the internet great?  Policy all the time is boring!  You know what else is fun online today? #VictoryDance  https://vine.co/v/O255VDQhBed 
White and Gold? Or Blue and Black? Comcast only sees GREEN ;)  https://www.facebook.com/CommonCause/photos/a.431905262213.221989.10803722213/10153250786147214/?type=1&amp;theater
We couldn't have done it without all the help of millions of users chiming in with support!  Time for a victory dance, but there will be pushback from the other side, so stay vigilant and make your voices heard in the coming months. - Kate/PK
I mentioned unbundling since I used to work for a facilities-based CLEC.  By the time I had left Powell's FCC had gutted the 1996 Telecom act and the CLEC part of the company (which also was an ILEC) stopped offering residential phone and High Speed Internet.  I have long supported the idea of either unbundling or requiring the infrastructure to be spun-off into a separate company where ISPs would lease either the last mile or more.  Basically a model common in Europe. 
??? I saw it as a long shirt. MINDBLOWN  Kate/PK
#llamadrama!!!!1
any ISP that is selling access to "the internet" will operate under these net neutrality rules.  But yes, if someone came along and built a nationwide network dedicated only to netflix they would not necessarily be subject to this rule.  The main thing preventing that is probably that the best way to recover costs for a network is to offer access to as many things as possible. -weinberg
What do you really think the opposition has against Net Neutrality?  I think that it us dumb to even have this debate on Net Neutrality. Net Neutrality should be passed unanimously.
Neutrogena? -Chris/PK
I keep hearing about discrimination and litigation. Who is the one that gets to say they are being discriminated? How long would that process take if something like Verizon blocking network on FIOS accured, or when people get threatening letters from the provider that tell them they have used to much data or tell them to stop using certain websites (ie bit torrent) or else they will cut off service? How would usin Title II to make it easier to complain? 
Obama won't be in office forever. What happens if the Republicans win in 2016 and they hold the 3-2 edge in the FCC? Can they undo everything?
With respect to interconnect/peering: If the content creators aren't willing to shoulder the cost of their content's burden on the network beyond the last mile, what then, other than direct price controls, does the FCC have in its arsenal to prevent telcos from simply passing the cost of carrying that content from the creator to the telco customer? And wouldn't the result be a forced subsidization of that content creator by telco consumers who may not even consume that particular content?  Thank you for answering.
I also think a good response is to keep things simple and speak to our core values. The FCC rules are about protecting the Internet, freedom of speech and diversity from the telecom monopolies. (and ignore the really crazy stuff like Obamacare)
But, can they still limit how many cat videos he can watch? 
It is likely that any user who thinks that their ability to reach the internet, or any internet service (like reddit or your blog) that thought it was being discriminated against could bring a complaint.  We haven't seen the text of the rules yet, but in 2010 the first step was to send a letter of complaint to the ISP in question.  It gave them notice that you thought they were discriminating and that you were going to file a formal complaint in 10 days if they didn't stop. If, after 10 days the ISP had not stopped, you could file a formal complaint with the FCC.    Title II makes it a bit easier to complain because it gives you decades of older complaints to point to as examples for why the discrimination you were worrying about is bad. But more importantly, it makes it more likely that the rules themselves will not be thrown out by a court.  -weinberg
What do you think about the five potential loopholes that Barbara van Schewick has [outlined](http://www.technologyreview.com/news/535371/five-loopholes-that-could-undermine-net-neutrality/) as potential problems with the FCC's net neutrality proposal?  I'm particularly concerned about how to monitor Internet carriers for violations and whether network management will be used as a way to get around the rules.  Also, there's not a lot of discussion about the municipal fiber law preemption issue. How big do you think that vote was and do you think it will help develop competition in the Internet provider market?
Theoretically, yes, but the outpouring of support for Net Neutrality has even GOP members of Congress trying to figure out how to create rules on their own terms.   Politicians know people want net neutrality rules. The people have to continue to speak loudly so that any legislation matches what the FCC just did.  Or they must speak loudly in any FCC effort to turn back from these rules.    Check out the comments from AT&amp;T... They are counting on people walking away from this issue...  Chris/PK
Which one of you will seppuku yourself when this all goes to shit?
In theory, they COULD. But there are is a lot of process involved that the FCC has to undertake before they can reverse a decision.  There needs to be a robust record of the reason that the Commission is changing it's mind.  This was in fact a reversal of a decision made in 05 - The nice thing about agency rule-makings is that there is a transparent process, with notice, that anyone can weigh in on.  In short, it takes about as much work to reverse this as the actual Commission as it has taken to get here.
What do you think was the reason that the vote was so close?
I think the answer is: yes, and we'll have to stop them from doing that.
What do you say to people who are in favor of Net Neutrality but worry that expanding the FCC's authority could have [unintended consequences in the long run](http://www.wired.com/2011/02/fcc-trojan-horse/)?
Probably this one.  Xo, KFo   -Kate/PK
That's a great idea for a future net neutrality AMA!  Here are a few resources with some basic background:  https://www.publicknowledge.org/issues/net-neutrality  http://whatisnetneutrality.org/timeline  https://www.publicknowledge.org/act-now/tell-congress-to-support-real-net-neutrality  http://whatisnetneutrality.org/  https://www.publicknowledge.org/tag/Net+Neutrality
Honestly, though, it won't.
If by seppuku you mean, spend my entire work life fighting to ensure it doesn't go to shit... me!
Partisan lines.  It was straightforward good policy for consumer protection, but frankly, these things don't happen in a political vacuum.  -Kate/PK
It seems possible that any ruling can have unintended consequences. For Example, FCC classified broadband Internet under Title I in 2002. It's up to public watchdogs to make sure that the Internet is protected. Nathan/Demand Progress  edit: 2002, not 2005 
Pai and O'Rielly were "Team Cable" lost causes from the beginning. Pai was a top lawyer for Verizon before he went to FCC. 
Barbara's concerns are real, and we (and she) will be working hard to make sure they don't become real problem.  The enhancements to the transparency rules should make it easier to monitor for violations, and to see if what is claimed to be "reasonable network management" is actually related to network engineering concerns or financial concerns.  The muni fiber vote was huge.  At any other FCC meeting that would have been massive news.  Regardless of its impact on competition, it allows communities ignored by big ISPs to just build their own connections to the internet.  -weinberg
Because the commissioners are appointed by the President, there are always 3 members from the political party in power and 2 from the minority party. Most votes at the FCC are unanimous, because they are on noncontroversial items. But on any of the big ones, they usually split along party lines. 
You're citing an EFF article from 2011. You missed that EFF now supports this ruling.  Check out: https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/11/white-house-gets-it-net-neutrality-will-fcc-0  Chris/PK
How will NetNeutrality affect the future of OneWeb and the SpaceXGoogle space internet?
It is a sign of our highly politicized process that common sense principles to protect competition and debate online become partisan hot potatoes. But the problems are pretty specific to Washington, DC. In fact the 2005 Open Internet Policy Statement was a 5-0 vote. The issues haven't changed - but the level of political gamesmanship has soared.   Outside the DC Beltway, Open Internet principles are overwhelmingly popular across the political spectrum. 
Barbara is a giant in this field and we should take her concerns seriously. We do really need to get the details right.  Nathan/Demand Progress
No that's the beauty of this. When we have strong rules on Net neutrality it allows you use the internet when you want and how you want. It is the consumers choice rather than the ISPs.   
Not to be too glib, but there is a lot of money to be made by cable companies if there is no net neutrality. -Michael/Spitifre
Yeah! Building Internet policy is a process. We have to let the Internet grow and do it's thing, and intervene very narrowly and strategically when problems come up.  The looming prospect of Comcast shaking down the entire Internet and slowing down most websitesto favor otherswas an existential threat. We needed to act.
Indeed! You can learn more about what's next at bit.ly/WhatsNextNetNeutrality. Celebrate the win and savor the victory, but keep an eye out for another alarm from us, because were not quite done yet.  -Meredith
Oops. I just saw the link on reddit. Should have checked the date. Thanks!
Why did this happen now? The NN true believers have always been skulking around, but how did this all of a sudden come to pass?   It's entirely too convenient that these sweeping changes are occurring right at the same time the giant content delivery corporations are rising to prominence. 
I think a lot of the opposition comes from misinformation campaigns. The rest of it comes from a simple reality of Washington: the cable and phone companies are among the top contributors to political campaigns. They hate Net Neutrality, because it limits their ability to extract even more money from consumers (keep in mind that some of these guys have profit margins of like over 90%). If they hate it, they tell politicians to hate it too.   When folks who aren't receiving campaign contributions hate it, it's because they don't understand it. Explain to them what it actually means, bring the facts to the table, and suddenly they are on board. 
Already too late in Canada. We're far past that. To think this amount of revolt comes from america, and people are complaining over there about their prices and saying caps will bring them back to the stone age... Its just makes me sad for the state of tech in Canada. 
to the extent that either will qualify as US broadband access service providers (and I'm not sure either one would), they would be prevented from discriminating just like any other ISP. However, this is where that "reasonable network management" stuff becomes important. It *could* be that these services could impose restrictions on users that other ISPs could not, if those restrictions were really tied to technological limitations of their network.  -weinberg  
I think ISPs can still use data caps. Correct me if I'm wrong. 
To build on what Michael said, cable companies like Comcast can (1) charge big established companies with deep pockets a lot of money for higher access (the "fast lane" problem) and/or (2) prioritize the content that they own or have a vested interest in while degrading competing content guys (ex: Comcast has ownership in Hulu, which competes directly with Netflix, GooglePlay, etc., and so can give preferential treatment).  -Kate/PK
Over the past year or so my ISP has started enacting data caps, and subsequently making them lower and lower (we're now at 250gigs for a 50Mb connection). Do these rules and reclassification stand any chance of undoing this, and if any further action is required on my part, how should I go about it?  I'm signed up with FFTF and Demand Progress, and call/email every time I got an email from you, I'm glad to see it paid off.
it will probably be that data caps can be challenged under these rules, but they are not explicitly banned. -weinberg 
Have you been privy to the actual wording of the legislation? I'm asking out of genuine curiosity and not being facetious.
A LOT of things led up to this moment! I guess the simplest answer to explain the timing is Verizon. In 2005, the FCC issued of Open Internet principles. When it was codified in 2010, Verizon sued. A court in DC agreed that the rules were based in faulty legal authority in January of 2014.  That led to the rule making procedure which ended in the vote yesterday. 
ISP subscribers shoulder the cost of everything they access via the internet through monthly fees.  If a subscriber wants to access lots of data intensive content (like HD video) they pay more than a subscriber who only wants to access email by purchasing a faster (and more expensive) connection. -weinberg
Like any important principle, we will have to fight to protect it because big telecom will never go away. There are many hearings in Congress planned on net neutrality already. We will have to be vigilant and the groups who fought for this will continue to organize and need support. But having such a large majority of the country on our side will hopefully reduce the extent of the attacks. -Michael/Spitfire
I would say there was nothing all that sudden about it. This was a victory ten years in the making.   But last January, when a court threw out the last existing Net Neutrality rules on the books, we had an opening to actually push for the solution we won yesterday.   Reclassifying under Title II was always the right answer and after the court threw out the rules a powerful coalition formed (including many of the groups here) to fight for it. We mobilized millions. The public lead the way and then companies, comedians and politicians followed.   To quote Malkia Cyril from the Center for Media Justice: "What happened? The people happened, organizing happened."   [More here.] (https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2015/02/26/net-neutrality-thanks-unprecedented-guerrilla-activism-campaign/) 
Sadly, it may reduce the chance that Free Press makes videos of their staff dressed up like cats in front of the FCC.
These rules may give you the opportunity to challenge the caps as unreasonable.  If you don't mind me asking, what is your ISP?  You can hit 250gb pretty fast on a 50mbps connection. -weinberg
Does Title II impose the ISPs to respect customer privacy?  For instance AT&amp;T has a broadband service in certain cities which has an [additional monthly fee](http://arstechnica.com/business/2015/02/att-charges-29-more-for-gigabit-fiber-that-doesnt-watch-your-web-browsing/) to not monitor your internet activity.  
[deleted]
So that I understand your position: The next time Netflix and Comcast get into a tizzy, if the FCC sides with Netflix it's your assertion that Comcast will not pass along those costs to its subscribers? Or is your assertion that Comcast will shift those costs to its subscribers and that it is fair to do so?
I wouldn't be so cynical. This was a big, big win for everyday users. It was a serendipitous and hard-won confluence of the right grassroots/consumer voices and public interest groups (like those you see here!) pushing, the (ACCURATE!) arguments by legal eagles, broad and diverse business support from companies large and small, and the right people in the right decision-making positions listening to those accurate arguments, deliberating on and ultimately arriving at the best course of action - and the one most likely to withstand any challenges.  As to the "giant content delivery corporations", the whole point of net neutrality is that any content delivery, large or small, will establish itself and survive in the internet ecosystem based on its merits rather than the depth of its pockets - user preference and ongoing satisfaction acts as the "upvote" for success and promotes a healthy competitive environment.  -Kate/PK
potentially yes.  Title II has broad privacy protections built in.  We won't quite know how those protections apply (and how they might apply to the AT&amp;T privacy fee) until we see the text of the order. -weinberg
[Try this!] (http://www.savetheinternet.com/net-neutrality-what-you-need-know-now)
While we wait to see the rules and then lawsuits stuck on the bench - so to speak - are we protected under any rules or is it the wild west? Are the current rules rendered null and void by this vote? I heard people say in testimonies that we were living with out rules and we have been fine. Is that true? 
The FCC ruling does not stop data caps, but it does create a process at the FCC where this practice can be challenged as unreasonable. Public Knowledge has long encouraged the FCC to actually collect information on these data cap policies because they can be used in a harmful way. A challenge under the new Net Neutrality rules is a possibility, but this is why we needed rules and a cop on the beat.  Thank you for all your calls!!! We would not have won yesterday without people like you. Congress and the FCC were overwhelmed, and it turned many skeptical politicians into believers. -Chris/PK  
You must resist the "dark lines" - PK/Brynne 
In one sense, it happened because ISPs wanted an end to the defacto net neutrality we've enjoyed since the Web was founded. They saw the prospect of making money from paid prioritization and fast lanes and pushed for it. We pushed back harder.  -Michael/Spitfire
We've been raising concerns about data caps for [years](https://www.publicknowledge.org/documents/letter-to-fcc-on-att-data-caps), and I can assure you that we are working very hard to make sure they don't become a backdoor way to get around strong net neutrality protections. -weinberg
How is the status of Net Neutrality in other countries?
How does this net neutrality problem affects me as someone outside the US and how can I help ? 
Ditto re: details. It seems like there are some rules we could've gotten in there and didn't. But things turned out *way* better than expected.  After all, getting solid rules at all was widely considered impossible in DC circles.
Every nation's network is different, but hopefully the rules passed by the FCC yesterday can serve as a model for other countries to help protect the open internet. -weinberg
Thanks for your support! That really, really sucks re: data caps. If you'd like to try to organize something locally, be in touch, maybe we can help or advise! holmes@fightforthefuture.org
It varies greatly country by country. In hearings and discussions, the EU was often used as the example however the set up there is not perfect. Further, within the EU there are differences and some work better then others. PK/Brynne 
I'm glad that the Internet gets to make me feel small and unseen, as opposed to an ISP. :)
technically the wild west.  These rules were necessary because the previous rules passed in 2010 were struck down by the DC Circuit Court (with the exception of some transparency rules which remain in force).  Since that decision in early 2014 there have been no net neutrality rules in force.  However, it is probably reasonable to think that the ISPs are aware of this proceeding, and it is unlikely that they would go out of their way to do something that will be easily challenged once they become final.  The reason we have been (mostly) fine for the past 10 years is that we have been living under a combination of rules and periods of time where the FCC was seriously considering imposing rules.  For the times were rules were not technically in place, the fact that they were being seriously considered acted to keep ISPs somewhat in line. -weinberg -weinberg
Thank you for all the work you guys are doing. 
How have ISPs responded to this? I know they don't want it because they can make money of a unbalanced internet, but has every ISP been as snarky as Verizon? How would you respond to verizon's [letter](http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/funnybusiness/chi-verizon-morse-code-net-neutrality-20150226-story.html#page=1) 
"Net neutrality" was the de facto "wild west" atmosphere as the internet grew up.  In fact, it wasn't until 2005 that internet service was taken fully out of the "Title II" zone.  To compensate, the FCC wrote what was called the "Internet Policy Statement" which attempted to preserve the critical net neutrality protections of nondiscrimination, non blocking, transparency, etc.    Those were kind of assumed by everyone involved - ISPs included - to be the authority for maintaining NN for a while, through a number of conflicts.  Then one day, when Comcast was accused of blocking Bittorrent, they decided to sue the FCC saying that the FCC couldn't tell them what to do because the "statement" wasn't a strong enough authority.  The court agreed with Comcast and so in 2010, the FCC began to scramble to write real rules to restore the authority to enforce principles everyone had already assumed were in place.   The initial rule-making they came up with attempted to compromise what the ISPs wanted with what consumer groups wanted by invoking the weaker Title I/706 authority.  And so the rules of nondiscrimination and nonblocking and transparency were again in place for another four years - until the court essentially said "nice try, but legally, what you really need to do is use Title II for the best rules." And so... At long last that is what the FCC has decided to do.  But, all that is to say, there has been a grand total of maybe several months where there were "no rules" in place over the past 20-some years.  It is just the other side deliberately misrepresenting the (obviously) complicated legal history.  FOR MORE FUN!!! http://whatisnetneutrality.org/timeline  -Kate/PK
Yes, federal regulation usually works out great for small companies. 
+1 on that. I live in Brazil right now, and I just had a conversation this week with a policy expert here who said that a victory in the US will make it easier to pass good net neutrality rules in Brazil.   An activist friend in Europe said something similar, a few months back, when things looked grim. If you happen to be in Europe, go here: [savetheinternet.eu](http://savetheinternet.eu/)
Does it bother you that the awesome news you bring were overshadowed by the media frenzy around the dress? The timing was bad luck.
Suddenlink Communications, who is owned by Cequel Communications.   250gigs is horrifically low, and I've kept very close track of data usage and there's some vast discrepancies not only with myself, but family and friends on the same carrier (as an example, days at a time that I'm on vacation, or away on business show me using 10+gigs of data daily, and there aren't any internet connected devices in my home that I leave behind when going on business.) Obviously my network is secured and MAC filtered, so I know the problem isn't on my end.  Edit: of=\=or
Truly the calls mean so much! While not everyone on congress was onboard with Net Neutrality, many Senators and Representatives got right into the middle of the fight making a huge difference.   The next step in this fight that will be crucial is taking a moment to thank those that you called. Not only is this appreciated, but it also builds goodwill for future asks. 
Are there examples of ISPs discriminating against websites since we lost net neutrality in January 2014? 
Every company will have a different corporate culture and different responses.  Some will be more careful than others, and many have said they are evaluating their options.  Verizon has tended over the years to be one of the more outspoken immediately - they were the ISP that jumped to sue the Commission over the 2010 rules - which they likely now regret winning. -Kate/PK
Some of you have mentioned the concept of unbundling the last-mile connections to introduce actual competition into the downstream ISP industry. Could you please tell me whether, under Title 2, the FCC has the right to actually ORDER local loop unbundling, as has been implemented in Great Britain and other European countries?
ISPs have been on pretty good behavior during this process in order to undercut claims that the rules are necessary.  But many of the data caps moves that wireless carriers have made raise concerns.  -weinberg
This was also summed up well in these words from our SVP Harold Feld "It did not happen because some powerful person or special interest wanted it. It did not happen because John Oliver made a funny video. It happened because hundreds of lawyers, grassroots organizers, and policy advocates persuaded over 4 million people to stand up for their rights and demand that the government act to protect them from the unrestrained corporate power of broadband access providers. It shows  to everyones surprise  **that government of the people, by the people and for the people has not perished from this Earth."**  https://www.publicknowledge.org/news-blog/blogs/the-fcc-is-gonna-give-me-an-open-internet-for-my-birthday-tell-congress-not
My understanding is that they can do that under Title II, but not under the rules they just passed. So, reclassification makes winning back unbundling (and real competition) easier in the future.  It's possible that the cable monopolies opposed Title II reclassification for precisely this reason :)
It was actually the llama drama that really got our... wait for it... GOAT.  Seriously though, we just save the internets.  It's up to you guys to decide what gets the attention.  GO FORTH AND UPVOTE.   Kate/PK
excellent, tyvm!
(that is, they were afraid of even the remote possibility of someday having competitors be able to access their infrastructure on fair terms)
Wow thanks!  and I agree!!!!
No! While it's not the greatest use of the internet that dress and it's spread to millions of people shows the power of the internet. If we did have a two tiered internet, either the dress would never have been seen or a richer designer dress would have arrived on your news feed first.   But seriously, what was more bothering is the fact that some people saw it as gold and white! PK/Brynne
[Measurement Lab](http://measurementlab.net/) has been doing great work collecting the data that would catch these kinds of violations. If you're interested in the monitoring problem, check out their work!
Why do net neutrality activists want all "zero-rating" to be prohibited?  After all, consumers can benefit from that.  I can understand wanting it banned if one company gains unfair advantage through anti-competitive means.  However, we don't ban all instances of a company giving away a service for free (we don't ban Facebook, for instance).    Wikipedia Zero, to take a popular example, does not pay any money to cellular service providers to allow their customers to access Wikipedia for free.  How is this a bad thing?  And if the answer is going to be "This prevents future competitors unfairly", then Encyclopaedia Britannica could have used that exact excuse to prevent Wikipedia from following a zero-payment/free model: it unfairly prejudices users against a paid product like EB.  Further, what is wrong if a telco like iiNet in Australia provides zero-rated access to content that is colocated in place as them (thus decreasing their cost of delivery, as they don't have to pay transit costs)?  As long as such colocation is not exclusive, any company that wishes to provide cheaper access to its content can do so.  Why is this a bad idea?  And how would you distinguish this situation from, say, a company spending money on a CDN?
The rules don't apply to content companies - they just apply to the transmission of the content.  It gives the FCC to protect small content companies, not regulate them.
I'm skeptical of just about any government regulation.  From what I can tell it very rarely ever results in a net gain for the consumer.  As we all know it internet video is a major bandwidth consideration.  I believe the last figure is 35% of all bandwidth.  So with that said if the providers cannot limit what type of bandwidth is transferred across the network infrastructure which they paid to install, aren't those video users taking up a disproportionate amount of bandwidth from other users.  Additionally,  what about smaller providers in rural areas who might already be physically limited in the amount of bandwidth that are capable of providing?  Are you not afraid this will lead to further consolidation of the provider industry in effect lessening competition and providing consumers with less choice?
Safe?  
From what I understand, the 8 pages that were released were the full actual rules.  The unreleased pages are guidelines on how the rules should be applied and how they interact with edge cases.
Re: video consumption, those people pay for faster speeds.  The regulations don't prevent different tiers of speeds - it just says that you get what you pay your provider for, and they don't get to make the judgment calls.  Kate/PK
Zero Rating creates the problem of scarcity. The problem with zero-rating is that in inherently allows and even requires providers to discriminate. Here is a great article on the potential harms a policy like this could [create.](http://www.theverge.com/2015/1/7/7510287/susan-crawford-explains-the-dangers-of-zero-rating-net-neutrality) 
Safe from discrimination by ISPs, and/or a two tiered system.
Have you read the 322 or so pages of this new policy?  Has anybody?  I've seen people on reddit and social media saying that they voted on it without making it public.  How can anybody be certain about what's in it if we haven't been given the chance to read it?  
We have kept the Internet safe from discrimination, blocking, and throttling with meaningful net neutrality protections! 
I'm not talking about consumption of speed.  I'm speaking of total bandwidth.  An Internet circuit can only handle x amount of data.  If 10 out of 100 people are hogging 35% of that, are they not receiVing a disproportionate amount of "product" than their peers?  And regarding consolidation and those of us in rural areas?
what does "lawfull" mean?
The Internet would have been safer if left alone!!! Why wasn't that an option?
That was the point of the rules.  The ISPs wanted to change the rules of the internet.  These rules say that the way the Internet works will stay the same: That anyone can create on it without asking permission, and consumers can go anywhere online without paying tolls.  Chris/PK
Can any citizen challenge an ISP's caps as unreasonable? How soon can I do something about my isp?   http://nushtel.com/cable-internet.htm
As to competition, Title II will help promote competition, although it is not the only piece in the puzzle.  Everyone answering on this thread is earnestly working on additional issues as well, not necessarily all has high profile but equally important, all directed at the end goal of competitive and reliable access, innovation on the network, and increased investment in broadband deployment.    For example, yesterday the FCC also voted to remove barriers for municipalities to build out their own broadband services to compete with the big ISPs. It was actually a federal regulatory move to remove anticompetitive state regulations, in a way, and increase access and buildout in areas where ISPs aren't already doing it.  So I wouldn't have a blanket skepticism of "just about any" regulation - it's all about the content of the rule- and in this case the alternative is trust your ISP to always do what's right for you, the consumer.  Which I don't. #realtalk   -Kate/PK
As a rural consumer, you would get the speed you pay for, whether you pay a rural or non-rural provider. These rules keep all providers honest and that's a great thing for all consumers. The rules don't impact the revenue stream that broadband providers already counted on for deployment. So broadband providers will continue to count on the money they already had. In addition, because broadband service is now Title II, broadband providers might be able to apply for Title II Universal Service Fund subsidies to bring Title II services to rural areas. This would be a great opportunity for broadband providers in rural areas. We still have to see the details of the order to see if this is a direction the FCC is favoring, but the possibility is there.  
You also get cat banners flying over the Comcast HQ in Philly: http://www.ibtimes.com/grumpy-cat-claws-comcast-net-neutrality-supporters-fly-massive-banner-over-1831188
The FCC rules of transparency have been in place for years under the Administrative Procedures Act. The important thing is that the FCC asks for comments etc is so that it can create an order that reflects the argument in the public comments. If the FCC had to release it's rules for public comment every time there is an edit or a change they would never have rules. PK/Brynne 
Random thought: let's say, hypothetically, that Title II protections could be applied to stop monitoring of consumer web traffic by ISPs.  Could that then be a starting point to stop the broad-stroke web traffic monitoring and meta-data collection being carried out by government institutions like the NSA?
[deleted]
we keep coming back to the topic of speed.  I am talking about volume.  the amount of data that a wire can transmit at one time is finite.  This is oversimplified,  if 10 users are consuming 35% of the volume of available bandwidth on a line servicing 100 user how is this "neutral" for the other 90?
Sorry I should have elaborated.  I agree that some steps have been made that help insulate net neutrality but isn't this something that could be simply overturned given a new (R) administration or slowed to a stand still from endless lawsuits?
[deleted]
[deleted]
When do the new rules take effect and what action should I take if I believe my ISP is not abiding by them?
Gigi Sohn has said the NN rules apply only to lawful content and services. If an ISP blocks a site because it contains unlawful content, can the FCC force the ISP to unblock the site?
[deleted]
You also aren't really talking about Net Neutrality, at least not in the same way.  What this ruling means, in essence, is that when a user requests data, it is not prioritized or delayed in relation to any other data.  A byte is a byte, regardless of whether it comes from Netflix, Youtube, mobile banking, porn, Facebook, Google, Wikipedia, etc.  The issue of how to allocate those bytes to individual users is a different matter.
How long do you expect the internet to remain safe?  Will the work be ongoing to ensure the judgement stands?
Could you please define regulation in more than a thousand words?
[deleted]
While this is a HUGE win there are still more battles to fight. The best articulation of this in an article by Brian Fung that the Washington Post released [today](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2015/02/26/the-fcc-set-to-approve-strong-net-neutrality-rules/)  As far as filing a complaint, once the rules are enacted you can make a direct claim through the FCC and their new [Consumer Complaint](https://consumercomplaints.fcc.gov/hc/en-us) site. Also, if you do file a complaint, let us at [Public Knowledge](https://www.publicknowledge.org/about-us/contactus/) know, we would love to hear how it turns out!   
How do you know that happened yesterday when the FCC is refusing to let people see what they passed?
[deleted]
[It's like this.] (http://www.gmppublications.com/GMPbooksx275.jpg)
In short, yes.  This progress has been a long time in the making, and we aren't going anywhere. -Kate/PK https://imgflip.com/i/i81mh
Because we watched them vote live and in person.  Check it out on www.fcc.gov/live
[deleted]
In this case, its convoluted. If we are talking just about blocking, their could not be a reasonable argument that everything on the pages is unlawful. Therefore the consumer could still use the FCC complaint process. 
So you've read the rules?  Even though no one else has.  Will you post the rules that will go into effect here since you are implying that you know them?
The "lawful" distinction separates illegal things like child pornography, dark web stuff, and *sigh* bittorrent.
Somebody brought up in another thread that the ruling pertains to broadband, but what about connections/services that are no longer classified as broadband since the FCC increased the required speed?
It's a nice slogan, but it's complete bullshit.  Of course, bullshit slogans are your specialty.
&gt; The FCC rules are about protecting the Internet, freedom of speech and diversity from the telecom monopolies.  That's fucking rich, especially considering no one here has read the 332 pages of rules.
When it comes to impact, this seems like it will be helpful to many, but wont there be many people, like myself, who have it really good right now  and fear prices will go up, caps put on, taxes increased etc.  I know its selfish, but from my perspective it can only go downhill.   What are your thoughts on people who are currently living the internet dream?  I have comcast, pay just under $100/m, have 150mbps and use 1-2 TB of bandwidth a month.  http://i.imgur.com/4hUrj2m.png   
Your assertion sounds like the bullshit to me. What with the lack of sourcing and offensive tone.
And you know that because...?
Is it really safe?  The Republicans sure are bent on fucking it up. It is their modus operandi and all--to fuck shit up. 
It seem like Republicans understood the outrage about fast lanes, and even went as far as to wanting to regulate that, so companies couldnt behave that way, but they also said net neutrality wasnt the answer, it sort of reminds me of the Obama-Care opposition, yes we think that not having access to health care because of pre exisiting condition is bad, but Obama-care is not the way to go. ?  Is it this kind of tactic that is always used by the opposition ? and have the Republicans actually proposed another type of "Net Neutrality" ?
What if the site consists of a home page with nothing on it except Snowden documents, or content that violates copyright law (in other words the entire site is unlawful content)?
Thank you all for making a difference and for all your hard work. 
I know I am late, but my question is this. What does this mean for companies like Google fiber trying to get footholds in places where cable companies reign? Or is this more of a business issue, between competing companies?
I am always late to these things. Here's my question:   Recently the FCC raised the minimum speed to 25mbps. My local ISP claims to be a broadband provider and doesn't offer these speeds. I noticed they meet the old requirements of 4/1 mbps (on paper, during peek hours I usually get 3/.5 mbps), What are the benefits of an ISP to meet these requirements? What about the ISP's that do not meet the minimum requirements? Is that a loop hole?
Where can I read all the rules enacted yesterday? I just want to get a picture for myself of the new rules. 
http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2015/02/the-fcc-isnt-afraid-of-atts-legal-threats-over-net-neutrality/
[deleted]
Does it being a utility benefit any companies hoping to become ISPs? Such as priority on "utility poles"? Getting a new cable pulled was a 3 month ordeal at my new house due to red tape getting right of way.  
How come nobody is asking for the government to prohibit the post office from offering paid prioritization of packages?
Will the new rules have any effect on AT&amp;T throttling my 'unlimited' data after 1GB per month?
Bittorrent traffic that can be identified as illegal.  That's actually pretty hard without the ISP running honeypots and/or using deep packet inspection, which only really works on unencrypted packets.  You should be blocking unencrypted torrent connections anyway.  Also, by "dark web stuff" I assume you mean things on the Tor network.  Good luck distinguishing legal from illegal Tor traffic.
Yet
Do you truly believe that one day soon, America will have access to fast download speeds? I know that this is going back and forth between Comcast and the FCC, but at which point do citizens start winning? 
[deleted]
I think paying to prioritize your package is more like paying for faster internet.  Paying extra because the post office noticed that you're mailing back your Netflix would be a different thing.
Anyone telling you they know the answer is full of shit. The details have not been published, all the responses are pure speculation.
The Internet is not safe. Did you forget about Snowden?
I am sorry but if the only thing that is preventing this ruling from quickly biting us in the ass is that people will get angry about it then we are all doomed.  Hell we have laws in place that allow for unlawful detention of American citizens and that still hasn't been stopped.
Have you guys consider the long term effects of this legislation? 
Thanks for the work on this!   My former isp had data caps and the cost of overages each month more than doubled my be.  To know that it might be possible to challenge them on this and to hopefully put a stop to it is encouraging. 
What good is supposed to come of this? I personally don't see how the government controlling ISPs can have any positive outcome. I know the FCC stated that they won't be controlling costs of certain bandwidth "packages", but we just passed a law that says they can.
[deleted]
There isn't. Just like the folks in the old American west, people get upset when the government starts enforcing laws and regulating things.  The internet has to be tamed, but it'll need to be an international effort. We can't have a lawless internet forever. People cling to this chaos, but it won't last. The 'free and open' internet won't be around forever.
Analogies aside, Yes, it is now a public utility. 
Does being a part of Title II mean that the internet will have to set up a free and accessable 911 system like Cell Phones?  Will there be a required GPS system attached like there is for cell phones as well?  What sort of safe search protocols are present to keep the FCC or any other government organization from tracking my location and web usage?
Why isn't Internet infrastructure rightfully the private property of the companies who invested in it?
Nothing
Except that speech isn't run by private companies.
&gt; It doesn't give the FCC any authority to censor content at all.  And the PATRIOT Act didn't start off by giving the feds the authority to wiretap your phone.    The day we give the government some power that they don't end up abusing, I'll be surprised. 
I thought it was to offer a dissenting opinion. Anyway, I'm sure most Republicans would use similar words to describe Democrats.
&gt; Theoretically, yes, but the outpouring of support for Net Neutrality has even GOP members of Congress trying to figure out how to create rules on their own terms. &gt;  &gt; Politicians know people want net neutrality rules.  Is that not the biggest danger of the FCC being able to place regulations on the internet?  Remove GOP and DNC, what happens when any members of congress decide they want to create rules on their own terms to make the internet "More fair?"
That didn't answer the question..
The conservative view of the internet is that it's lawless and completely unregulated. This is not an entirely stupid view, given the fact that technology is increasing exponentially, and so is the market for digital products. 
Time to Google the Canadian revolution
Jesus fucking christ. Where do you live? Is this the only ISP available?  God that is dogshit.
[deleted]
If you we're against SOPA, CISPA, and PIPA, how can you think giving the government more power over the Internet can possibly end well?
[deleted]
You could try reading some of what they are posting. It sound like you already have your mind made up that net neutrality is bad though.
Tea or coffee, and how do you prefer it?
but why haven't we seen the bill?  not drafts, but the final version that was voted on... after they had a chance to sneak in all the bartered pork/giveaways or anything that may or may not grant the government the ability to shut you off from the internet.  you know... for your protection/national security/think of the children of course.  lets take it a step further...  reddit seems to loves the government and think government can do no wrong. we are told here on statist reddit that the FCC will **only** regulate the "pipes"/your access to it.  well, lets compare that to radio and TV.  they started out saying they would just regulate power of transmissions and maintain frequencies to avoid overlap. job done, great job FCC.  but did they stop there?  fuck no they didn't, they came up with a list of content that they deemed "unairable/unbroadcastable" (7 dirty words, x-rated content, other language and situations). in other words... they regulated free speech and content.  now just think of all the horrible vile shit that hides in the internet... i'm not talking porn sites, i'm talkin way fucked up shit like kid touching shit, or snuff films, or whatever horrible shit you can think of.  i would imagine, and probably wouldn't object to, them saying "well we can't allow that horrible awful content to be aired/broadcasted on government regulated internet..."  they've already used their government powers to stop gambling sites, or sites like the silk road... so why wouldn't they include wording in this one that would grant them powers like that.  make it a lot easier next time a silkroad comes along that needs "attention".  so where is that line drawn?  "hate speech"? what is "hate speech"? who gets to write that definition?  a non-elected/appointed committee of people who have a past track record of fining and suspending licenses for radio stations or TV networks who broadcast things on the no-no list?   people who are frequently bought and paid for by lobbyists or the companies they are tasked with "regulating"...  who then owe favors to the person who appointed them (government).  remember the "fairness doctrine", yeah, that was the FCC...  but hey i'm sure this is all crazy talk, and the government would never do anything like this in a more-than-300 page text-book sized bill they just pass without letting anyone read.  because that has *never* happened before right?  sorry man i just don't trust the government to not over-reach... it does every single time it gets it's hands on anything.
Could you answer the question?
Why isn't this higher? Shouldn't this be the pre-requisite to create a topic about this?
&gt; its the plan of 4 million Americans  Or roughly 1% of Americans.
Good guy Canadia will follow the US.
[deleted]
The funniest part about that speech to me, was that I watched a C-SPAN stream that began with the statement that C-SPAN was a service provided by the various cable providers across the country.  "Live at 5, the last thing cable companies want you to see! Brought to you by cable companies!"  I appreciated the 'irony'
I guess you are sharing a pretty narrow data stream with a sizable region of the planet. They probably have a good argument for some sort of cap.  But cellular and wired networks have multiple paths, and be scaled by adding lines or just upgrading equipment in-place over time. And their profits are astronomical - there is plenty of money to invest in infrastructure. But if they can artificially reduce usage, they can just pocket the money instead. As a protected monopoly in many areas, this is an abuse.
So their response is, if they complain about us, we will investigate ourselves? Really, I mean...really?
&gt;You could try reading some of what they are posting. It sound like you already have your mind made up that net neutrality is bad though.  Reading some of what a group is speculating?  I have no problem with net neutrality, I just don't trust that this ruling will be free of loopholes and surprises.
Crickets.
When could we read the bill that's passed? 
OK, Now can we force ISPs to stop prohibiting personal servers in their terms of service?
..All thanks to Net Neutrality and an open internet. 
Oh you watched them pass it? When did you actually read the law? You posted a typical liberal post. I'll quote Nancy Pelosi, "If you want to know what the bill is, you have to let us pass it first".
I agree.  That's going to be an issue when the time comes to iron all this out.  It's foreseeable that an ISP will block anything that resembles or uses the same means of transport as an illegal service, leaving it to the user to take up his/her grievance with the regulator.  But hey, at least we have *somewhere* to air our grievances, right?  \_()_/
On a directly related note.  Apparently, one of Comcast's big arguments for "fast lanes" or whatever they're calling the payments their taking from Netflix, etc. was apparently that Netflix's ISP wasn't paying their share of their peerage fees.    Will the FCC have the ability to enforce peerage agreements between two of the backbone ISP's that are having a dispute? 
[deleted]
I feel like I have a relatively good grasp on what this FCC decision means, and I'm mostly all for it. I just can't seem to properly express myself to my father, a 62 year old republican, about why this isn't a terrible, terrible overreaching government move to take more of our freedom away. Can I get a simple, (ELI5)  direct, and easily repeatable explanation of exactly what changes this makes and how this will affect the internet use of the average american?
[deleted]
1% is a great showing for a non voting item.  This was pure activism and the vast majority has no interest in activism. 
I'm sure "lawful" is a moving target, dependent on the political and social climate of the times.
How do you feel about the rule not being made public regardless of protocol? Seems kind of messed up such important legislation is kept private from the public. How do we know that what the FCC is signaling isn't bullshit?
what's in the 320 pages?
&gt; if the only thing that is preventing this ruling from quickly biting us in the ass is that people will get angry about it then we are all doomed.  And I bet before yesterday's ruling, you thought the FCC was going to rule in the ISP's favor, because there's no reason they'd have to listen to what the people want. My point is, making an assumption that we are all doomed because things couldn't possibly go our way if we got angry enough is defeatist and patently false, especially when the opposite was demonstrated yesterday.  &gt;Hell we have laws in place that allow for unlawful detention of American citizens and that still hasn't been stopped.  My experience has been that people have gotten a lot angrier about net neutrality than unlawful detention of citizens. The former has had passionate advocates working for over a decade to push back on ISPs while Americans have grown generally complacent about the detention (and killing) of American citizens.
Seems like a bad argument since the opposite side could say exactly the same thing.
[deleted]
So the same people that have brought you the war on poverty, the war on drugs, the war on terror, armed drones, police state, SOPA, FIPA, NDAA and the NSA, are famous for their quality service at the DMV, VA and many other horribly run expensive and rude departments, the people who have a revolving door policy between government positions and corporate management, propose a 322 page addition of regulation on the internet without allowing the public to see it before it is passed after Tom Wheeler does a sudden 180? who thinks this is going to go well?   http://sunlightfoundation.com/blog/2014/04/24/obama-bundler-tom-wheeler-helps-his-former-industry-from-fcc-perch/ 
[deleted]
is this for real? i can't believe OP is on here with an unsolicited "you're welcome"....for handing the internet to the State.  what a fucking subhuman. 
[deleted]
Yeah! Nothing like more government control, regulation, and laws. Nobody has ever warned against any of those things, have they?
Why do you all think this is a good thing? This is just a foot in the door for the government to have control and tax it. Just wait and see. Then they'll start regulating content...they make it sound all great, but it won't be.  
*edit:* **warning** *what* *you* *are* *about* *to* *read* *is* *fucking* *sarcasm...* *so* *relax...* *wtfwhooooosh*  but reddit told me the government always has your best interest at heart.  you must be one of those racist, white, republican, CEO's or something.
"We are satisfied with the rules as they have been described publicly by the FCC."  I find the level of secrecy regarding all of this to be very discomforting. Nobody has actually seen the rules, just descriptions.  Why would that be? Seems like something pretty important to be left in the dark.
First, if you think they are idiots, you have the attitude problem as well.   
When we're more liberal than Canada I think it means they're really in trouble. 
If the NRA has taught us only one thing, it's that 1% of the population is all you need to always get your way.
Hey, there's this bridge in Brooklyn I'm selling. Are you interested?  
Great questions. Well thought out.
This will never stick anyways - so it's a mute point. 
Mainly, it's two different areas of the communications law.  This is Title II regulation, whereas the FCC's censorship of indecent material is on on free-to-air broadcasts on public airwaves; Title 18 sec. 1464.  For the same reason, the FCC doesn't regulate your phone conversations for curses like they do television or radio - your phone calls aren't free-to-air broadcasts on public airwaves, and neither is your communication via your ISP to a web host.  If the FCC is going to start regulating content of the internet, they'd need to get Title 18 re-written to include for-pay broadcasts, and then to include for-pay unicasts.  Comcast and other cable providers would fight that even harder than they did Network Neutrality, and in that case, most of the public would back them. 
Alaska.
Yep. In other news, fuck GCI.
[deleted]
Oh my days, I'm so sorry for your suffering. That's beyond infuriating.
Does internet access being classified as a communication service pave the way for more legal means of 'wiretapping' or surveillance?
Conveniently enough, the top post on /r/explainlikeimfive is exactly this topic:  https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/2x98ad/eli5_what_the_recently_fcc_approved_net/
I still don't understand how data caps can be in place after the AOL challenge 20 years ago. You can't claim "unlimited" and then put a cap on it, right? Or charge for "30 days" and then only allow 10 days of connectivity time. At least from my understanding that's what it meant. So how is capping data any different? They charge for a month of service at X Mbps and advertise it that way, but then stipulate that you can actually only use your service for a few days at the advertised speed. Isn't this why mobile data plans advertise a specific cap now, so they can avoid troubles with lawsuits claiming false advertisement or bad practices?
At least you guys can now legally get stoned while your ISP makes sweet unbidden love to your asshole. 
Isn't it? Money is speech according to SCOTUS, and no one has more speech than the corporate "people".
No capes! 
[deleted]
Why are youfor more government regulation?
2002 was when Micheal Powel's FCC reclassified broadband, correct.  There was a fight over the validity of that reclassification (given how pretty clearly questionable it is) that lasted until 2005, when the Supreme Court ruled it as a reasonable reading of the law in the Brand X case.  Notably, they *didn't* challenge the circuit court's wording that is was not the best possible ruling, just that it wasn't unreasonable.  From Title 47, the definitions of the classifications at play: https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/47/153  Telecommunications service: The term telecommunications service means the offering of telecommunications for a fee directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the public, regardless of the facilities used.  Information services: The term information service means the offering of a capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing, retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications, and includes electronic publishing, but does not include any use of any such capability for the management, control, or operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a telecommunications service.
[deleted]
Not OP, but if I want another ISP, I have to move to another apartment.  Some providers have presumably paid off the apartment management companies for exclusive control of the residents. 
That is fucking depressing...
Safe from what? Did it break? Did I miss something?
&gt; My experience has been that people have gotten a lot angrier about net neutrality than unlawful detention of citizens.  How fucking sad is that?
I hope your joking.  Assuming that someone is a "racist, white, republican, CEO" is racist in itself.   Stop connecting race to everything. single. thing. you look ridiculous and off completely off topic.
[deleted]
[deleted]
No, you pay to use 20mb/s at any use you want. Everyone has the right to use the full amount all the time. The internet operates more like a lake with boats in it that can't collide than a line. 50%hammering it doesn't currently slow the rest.
...how did you not get rained on by the sarcasm dripping off that post?
[deleted]
That's why I said I hope your joking. It's hard to tell sarcasm on the net, whether that was my mistake or yours. check out [Poe's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poe%27s_law)
I get 100mbps down and only pay $50 a month. It isn't terrible in all of Alaska. 
It's rural Alaska.
[deleted]
We are fighting some of the toughest and now angriest lobbiests/corporations out there. How hard do you think they will press to see this action reversed? What can we do to make sure it stays, and continues toward full net neutrality?   So much information flooded in these past few days. It's hard to pick out which is real and which is false.  A good amount of it has made me shakey on celebrating just because of how frail it feels. 
We "lost" net neutrality in 2002, and then for real in 2005.  The back and forth of the FCC trying to re-implement some form of reasonable regulation  has staved off some particularly egregious behavior, but in the meantime in the US, Comcast was caught throttling Vonage VOIP in areas where they offered a competing web service, and they were fined by the FCC for blocking bittorrent traffic.  After the fine, things settled down a bit, but then Netflix came about, and the Level3/Comcast fight started, and pretty much all of the big 3 ISPs started throttling Netflix traffic in order to favor their own more expensive video on demand services.  These were affectionately referred to as "managed services", and were originally going to be allowed under the new Net Neutrality rules, despite their blatant anti-competitive nature.  The Netflix and Comcast/Verizon/AT&amp;T is an involved dispute with lots of twists, but eventually Netflix gave in and started paying the ISPs for access to you, in addition to their own access to the internet as a whole.  This "make companies pay twice to access the customer", AKA "abuse of terminating access monopoly position", is still an issue today - these rules don't fix that.   edit: One more: recently Verizon and AT&amp;T started throttling speeds of unlimited mobile data plan users after a certain threshold was met; the FCC has told them that's not allowed.  Looking overseas, some anti-nuetrality actions which should concern us here, Telus in Canada blocked a union website during a trade dispute.  DoCoMo in India  started selling access to specific websites in packages like cable channels, which breaks how the web works in a few ways -1) you could access Facebook and Reddit with the social media package, but a bunch of the links wouldn't work because you can't click out to other websites if you haven't paid for them too 2) you can't start a new social media site without also contracting with DoCoMo to be included in their Social Media package.  It turns making a new website into creating a new cable channel - massively harder.  http://www.wordstream.com/images/what-is-net-neutrality-isp-package-diagram.jpg
thats how the FCC started, as an agency created to manage/control radio SIGNALS, soon they put themselves in charge of content. Then the same happened with TV, I see the same happening with the net when we put them in charge.If you want un restricted content ,(IE adult content) you have to pay more for that, like cable 
Answer the question please
[deleted]
This bill does not give the government more power as some have said. It gives ISPs less. The government's job is to fight for people. Weather from outside or inside powers. ISPs had gained unfair power to limit innovation and ensure their own profit in a way that does not adhere to a free market but a corpocracy. Unfair to its people, the FCC defended the rights of the people vs the companies that are limiting them.  Not all government power is bad. Without regulation companies would have the power to have unsafe work environments and to pay unfairly.
You must be a lawyer youre very good at avoding direct answers..you didnt address the 2nd point about less inventive to upgrade
Is it data capped though?
Answer this question
[deleted]
8 pages of rules, 326 pages of legal backing.
[deleted]
I have to believe this will go to SCOTUS and you will lose. If in the off chance you happen to win. How is the FCC going to keep the internet in the US truly free when all of the Mothers Against Everything type of groups start piling up the complaints or lawsuits?   If you're successful doesn't that mean they are going to have a pretty damn good case?
[deleted]
If the users on a particular node are saturating it, then the provider should move to upgrade their capacity.
The design of the Web itself is based on the concept of net nuetrality.  Tim Berners Lee, who invented the web, said it best:  "If I pay to connect to the Net with a given quality of service, and you pay to connect to the net with the same or higher quality of service, then you and I can communicate across the net, with that quality and quantity of service...[We] each pay to connect to the Net, but no one can pay for exclusive access to me."  http://dig.csail.mit.edu/breadcrumbs/node/132  As PublicKnowledgeDC mentions, from a legal standpoint, there is a lot of history with Common Carriers.  I think the best comparison is the package delivery system.  Just like FexEd or UPS carrying something from Amazon to you, your ISP isn't carrying their own product to you.  They are generally carrying data they don't own to you on the owner's behalf.  They have a duty to not destroy the contents of the package on the way, or decide to dump it in Antarctica because they don't like the contents.  FedEx acts neutrally to the content and destination of the packages they ship; they can charge more if it's further, but they can't charge you extra just because the destination is a UPS office.
Do you know anything about how this will impact Canadian internet?
Wrong.   Congrats - you've opened a huge can of worms... Hope you enjoy the consequences of your actions, though I'm sure you'll be the first to decry the long arm of the gov't and the deleterious effects all of this will have on innovation. 
I think it's sad that the government had to intervene to prevent prioritization of data on the Internet.   I have some concerns about how they decided to classify providers.  What happens if the government reneges on the agreement not to assign fees and taxes?  Obviously right now those costs are passed on to the consumer when it comes to telcos are we going be have to pay twice as much if our provider is also or phone company?  I am also concerned that using laws created before the Internet existed to regulate these businesses will back fire in the end.   It's too bad that competition and practices that consumers wanted did not win out over government intervention. 
You have given no proof or facts on how we are "wrong".
check out the fact that i wrote the original wall of text that he responded to, which i responded to, which you responded to.  hard to imagine someone would write a manifesto about this subject, then do a 180 and call someone the most absurdly stereotypical thing ever...thus countering his original wall-o-text.  i know sarcasm is hard to see sometimes, my fault for not using the "/s"... just didn't think i had to considering i was trying to have a conversation with someone about a subject we're both agreeing on.
You are one stupid fucker.
Remember, most of those 'Americans' were in foreign countries, doing naughty things, and most importantly, were brown. Prior to 9-11 you'd have been hard pressed to find an American affected by terror. That number went up, but has never hit Internet user numbers. A dozen+ years later and bombing some training camp in Yemen that may contain someone carrying a US passport ain't getting the homeland ruffled one bit. But don't fuck with their bread and circus. 
I'd say that the question is a real one, though if the court wouldn't side with Netflix, then Netflix would pass on the costs to consumers, and it has done already.  The problem here is that while the possibility of unbalanced peering agreements could be a problem, the recent bruhaha appears to be effectively manufactured.  Evidence of purposeful mis-routing to suggest greater congestion is pretty clear, and even Verizon itself accidentally said as much:  http://blog.streamingmedia.com/2014/10/mlab-netflix-routing-decisions.html  https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20140718/06533327927/level3-proves-that-verizon-is-absolutely-to-blame-netflix-congestion-using-verizons-own-data.shtml
Of course they didn't... And neither did anyone else other than the gov't lawyers that wrote it. Step 1 was to get power and control; step 2 is to make up the rules as you go along.   Btw, did anyone out there vote for these bureaucrats that are taking control? Of course not... they're only influenced by lobbyists and their boss in the White House. 
Why is the FCC's 300 page document still hidden in secrecy from the public? How can you celebrate a bunch of regulations when you don't exactly know what they are? Why was there no open, public debate on the initiative? 
i.e, you have no idea 
All things considered, I don't think that's very unreasonable. 
All I said was you don't need to bring race into it. Then accepted that you were using sarcasm
Sounds like the TPP
The rules were already there and readable, these weren't new rules, so they had been read.
I thought the people of reddit kept their eyes on the gubernment.  I don't think they think it can do no wrong their always posting something that the government is trying to do to fuck us over or something.
No it does not - it rests with the gov't 
[deleted]
Have you seen the actual text of the new regulations?
Exactly. They have no idea.. No one does. The unelected bureaucrats will make that up as they go along. 
Have any of the AMA participants read the new rules that were approved yesterday?
We can only hope. Next opportunity will be when the country elects a new despot in 2016...
But that is not specified.  The FCC gets to define that.
Fuck.  That's horrific. 
[deleted]
In an ideal world, the FCC represents what the people want.   But like I said, *in an ideal world*.
Amen... Rest assured they would not have addressed your points no matter when they were posted. 
they keep their eyes on reddit... and they allow their opinions to be shaped by the people who submit content (from huffpo, jezzabel, buzzfeed, gawker, politico, etc...), and the people who censor it (srs sjw's who are recently very frequently and very disturbingly discovered to be mods of the more popular subreddits).  but i'm sure it's all gonna be unbiased and have everyones best interest at heart.  just like the goverment.
It's not really in the dark. None of the rules go into effect until all the information is released.  Think of it like the supreme Court votes on stuff behind closed doors, then after figuring out who won, the 2 sides write the opinions. Then weeks/months later the ruling is announced from the bench.
What is the oddest situation you have had to deal with?
Do you live in a GCI monopoly area though? 
Better than an ISP denying you access to content regardless of its "lawfulness."
Rural Alaska, and they do have a monopoly. Nushtel offers service through GCI, a company that basically owns the Alaska Government. Their networks were built with federal funds and handed to the monopoly to charge whatever they want. Outside of the major cities in Alaska it's pretty terrible. 
Should the fed govt subsidize ISPs for delivering broadband to rural areas where the cost is prohibitive. If not, can the FCC claim that as unreasonable and force ISPs to deliver a level of service or save a penalty?
Yea, they would just wait until your contract is up.
Oh please, there are thousands and thousands of pages of rules and regulations that come in to play as a result of this "vote" - and that doesn't even account for the 300+ pages in this ruling which no one has even seen yet.   And who comprises the "we" that you are speaking for?
How likely is it that the government creates a new internet tax?
What about the other 300 million of us?
Except that rural Alaska has very little population, bandwidth caps on terrestrial networks don't ease network congestion, and the network is very new, funded largely with federal funds with the Connect America program. That, and GCI's prices are much higher in small population areas where they have a monopoly and much more reasonable in populous areas where there is at least one competing ISP. I do appreciate you lending perspective on the issue from the other side, but this whole situation stinks of monopoly control and profit making. 
322?  Coincidence?  I think not.
Not always used, but it's frequently used when they're clearly on the opposite side of the bulk of the population -- but still seek to subvert our will because they're paid to do so or because they adhere to a strict ideology that commands it.  Everybody -- the ISPs, the reactionary lawmakers -- now claims to support net neut abstractly, and are draping their cynical attempts to undermine the FCC in pro net neut rhetoric.  They need to do this because to say you oppose net neut is politically untenable now.  
This is a joke right? They didn't actually come on here expecting us to believe they are achieving something good, because that would be insane.
This was already answered.  Because it would create an endless cycle of public comment into revision and a bill would never actually get passed.
Subsidies are paid for with tax income. So now those of us with fast urban Internet are going to be paying for ,through taxes, other people's Internet. You've just shifted the burden onto the tax payer rather than the ISP. And people wonder why there is a revolving door...
That's so Expensive, even in India its just $6/month for Unlimited Internet at 512kbps including all taxes and stuff.
It doesn't really do anything to make it easier or harder for Google or a muni network or another small ISP.  But there are other reg changes that could help with that -- including one that the FCC also passed yesterday, to block state bans on public broadband networks in a couple of states.
What Wheeler said yesterday -- this is no more Internet regulation than the First Amendment is speech regulation.
So the 322 weren't written specifically for the internet? The 322 are already being used for the clarification of "utilities" and had been in the books for a long time? Am I understanding that correctly?
[I'm as mad as hell and I'm not going to take this anymore!](http://youtu.be/WINDtlPXmmE)
If streaming video accounts for the large majority of Internet traffic at 8pm why shouldn't ISPs charge a higher rate at that time? And before you say anything else know that public utilities do just that. A lot of people are in for a very rude awakening. 
well shit son... fuck it then. lets write all kinds of stuff and pass it into law. fuck telling people what it does first.  we'll call this next one the "save all the puppies and kittens from starving to death" bill and fill it full of legislation that strips your rights away.  fuck showing it to anyone first... the rubes don't need to know how we are going to fuck them... they'll just have to live with a bunch of bullshit we decided on in secret.  fan-fucking-tastic.  how did you not vomit three times while writing "because we didn't want people to have a chance to object to rules that govern them"  it's pretty god-dammed terrifying to think anyone would accept that as an answer.
No, title II is applied with forbearance meaning only the relevant regulations are applied.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Why we celebrating that an institution that has censored minority and radical voices on radio and television for nearly a century has weaseled its way into the internet now too?
The simple answer is yes. People can be easily bribed.
Is there examples of this ever happening?
[deleted]
&gt;"Poof!  Smoke bomb!"
&gt;Does being a part of Title II mean that the internet will have to set up a free and  &gt;accessable 911 system like Cell Phones?  No. Why would it?   The ONLY change that's been made is Net Neutrality.   And why on earth do you think the FCC might want to know your location?
Really? It sounded like libertarian panic mode.
Came here to ask the same thing. Something seems very fishy about it to me. Have you read the new policy?
[deleted]
This isn't anything sinister or unique to this vote. It's just the usual process. Everyone is drumming up controversy over nothing and playing right into the anti-NN narrative.
Top post seems pretty high to me...
Looks like they need a visit from reddit
&gt;Hell we have laws in place that allow for unlawful detention of American  &gt;citizens and that still hasn't been stopped.  Did you see what you did there. "Laws in place... unlawful". Oh Reddit. It's lawful because there's a law in place. You don't like it. You can vote to change it, but if you're the minority, that means things don't go your way. 
[deleted]
It was Verizon that sued to get the old rules overturned, not Comcast.  Comcast has open internet restrictions on them from their NBC merger.
"I think you all know that I've always felt the nine most terrifying words in the English language are, **I'm from the government and I'm here to help.**"?
It gives the fcc control of the internet...how is this a good thing?
How worried are you that this ruling will allow the government to infringe on the internet in the future? The natural progression of government regulation is that it starts out rather benign and then gradually becomes more encompassing, so I would like to know if you are concerned. I personally think this provision was appropriate/what we need, but am admittedly worried about the future. 
It's like fucking /r/conspiracy is oozing out everywhere
Bread and circuses indeed.  
Pray tell, what American citizens are being detained and executed? If you mean former citizens who renounced their citizenship by moving to the Middle East and joining ISIS or Al Qaeda and didn't bother stopping to declare their intentions at an Embassy first and then get killed in warfare as enemy combatants... well, there's a reason this hasn't stopped and it's not "complacency". It's because We the People aren't stupid enough to think we can't drop a bomb on a traitor's head (going all the way back to Benedict Arnold). If Reddit had its way if an American defected to the Nazis during WWII without filing paperwork they could walk in the middle of a combat unit and there would be a "no kill zone" around that unit because of this "American" in the midst. They could land on the East Coast and march all the way to the White House and America would be powerless to fire a shot. Sigh. 
I can't wait until the rules are released so all of you guys and your slippery slope arguments can just shut the hell up with your government conspiracies.  The rules will be released before they go into effect. This is normal FCC procedure. Calm the fuck down and wait until they are released.
There are no citizens being unlawfully detained, so there's that. Like pervasive surveillance, it's a figment of Reddit's imagination. How it gets vaccines right but imagines so much other nonsense is beyond me.
As someone who works for a small ISP how does net neutrality effect me?  I've been trying to find out how, if at all it will effect small service providers. Can other companies come into our towns (mostly villages) and offer service now? Can we go into other bigger cities and offer service? Is my job more or less secure than it was before?  How else does it effect the ISPs? Thanks.
No they wouldn't 
It doesn't end on Reddit, does it? Quick, say these words for extra bonus points: 'Sheeple", "1984", "literally Hitler/Nazis", "Ron Paul".
This is how it often works. Just because you're ignorant to that doesn't make it a big deal.  Laws can be amended or overturned if there are mistakes made on the final draft that is voted on.
The rules won't go into effect until 30 days after they are released. Everyone is flipping the fuck out for no reason. You will see the rules before they are implemented.
What's significant about the number 322?
[deleted]
Umm, pork and giveaways? The FCC has no appropriations power.
Ehh, those all feel over used and/or associated with crazy people.  I just finished Tale of Two Cities (which I enjoyed a bit, to my surprise), and with it being set in the French Revolution the whole "bread and circuses" thing rings a bell or two for me.  (also, if we're referencing George Orwell, I'd rather go Animal Farm than 1984, just because 1984 is overused)
[deleted]
Yes, they would. That's literally how it worked before stuff like the EPA , fair labor laws etc were established in the 1900s.  Before that you could do basically anything you wanted. People worked insanely long hours, in unsafe conditions. Child labor was fine. Toxic chemicals, mostly fine.  That's literally why these agencies exist, is because some company screwed up enough to make us realize we need them.
It's a DotA2 meme, meaning intentionally giving up a game for personal gain. 
[The IT Crowd predicted it.] (http://youtu.be/y_pwBQuINSA?t=1m20s)
That doesn't answer any of the three questions I asked. Why the fuck do the rules go into effect before they are open for public debate? We don't even know what we're celebrating. 
Democrats voted for it, so it's OK. Seriously, that's about the level of OK'ness that is here.
How can we continue to protect the internet from big corporations? The free web had a victory yesterday but all the major internet companies are gearing up for a bloody battle. 
That was a *extremely* unsatisfactory answer.
Being cautious of the government is American tradition. 
"How fast is the connection for cable modem?  NushTel currently has three high-speed cable Internet offerings: 512k, 2m, 3m, 4m and 6mbps."   wat 
[deleted]
The government also has a history of legalized discrimination by this logic you would be opposed to the civil rights act.  I don't know why you think the internet was in good hands with Comcast et al. They have shown time and time again that they just want to extract as much money for as little service as possible.
The NSA sure does, at least. 
[deleted]
FUCK GCI RIGHT UP THEIR SHITTY BEAR MOLESTING ASSES!
Check out sitkas prices and prepare to gag in disgust.
Good question, it really reminds me of the Patient's Affordable Care Act where they said the same thing, about how nobody read the whole thing before they passed it. It also kind of reminds me of the PACA because like the PACA, everyone (in favor of) is saying the internet is not going to change, but when the government starts getting their hands in it, I find it difficult to believe there will be no changes at all... 
No one on the Internet can do much of anything sneaky then , without being ferreted out easily.
&gt;Remember, most of those 'Americans' were in foreign countries, doing  &gt;naughty things, and most importantly, were brown.  Sigh. Most importantly was your own use of quotation marks. They weren't Americans, they were defectors. They didn't happen to stop at their local embassy and declare their intentions to wage jihad against America before they bought their plane ticket.  &gt; Prior to 9-11 you'd have been hard pressed to find an American affected by  &gt;terror.   Jeez you kids. How about the bombing of the Murrah Building in Oaklahoma City? Or the first attack on the World Trade Center? Or the U.S.S. Cole attack? Or the Lockerbie plane bombing (or one of many other plane bombings in the years previous)? Or the Achille Lauro boat hijacking?  &gt;A dozen+ years later and bombing some training camp in Yemen that may  &gt;contain someone carrying a US passport ain't getting the homeland ruffled  &gt;one bit.  Do you imagine it should, other than to cheer? Your " But don't fuck with their bread and circus." suggests that they should be upset.   In the words of Christopher Hitchens,  &gt;Cluster bombs are perhaps not good in themselves, but when they are  &gt;dropped on identifiable concentrations of Taliban troops, they do have a  &gt;heartening effect.  
No new law was passed. ISPs were reclassified under an existing law. If the FCC wanted to start rate setting it would require another vote and doing so would likely spark congressional action so it's not going to happen.
An answer would have been nice. 
Because it's more panic-mongering? (Reddit and social media are not valid sources of information).  As was explained, there's an 8 page policy and the rest is just guidelines for how to implement it. 
Yeah he seems pretty anxious and paranoid. Classic symptoms.
[deleted]
Are you at all concerned about letting the government have this much control over the internet?
Alaska's entire Internet arrives via two tin cans and a piece of string. Under those conditions, data caps seem appropriate.
From what i've read, the reason it wasn't published is that it legally can't until the 2 republicans on the committee agree to release it. They don't seem to want to. If they waited for that, it's likely it would've died entirely. That's not exactly the outcome we want, is it? So you can thank them.  It's not that we trust the government 100%. It's that there is no one else big enough to fight a corporation? You think you can take on Comcast? good fucking luck. Hell, even now, the only reason this even came up was because they'd start trying to squeeze money out of guys like Netflix. The reason government exists is to balance that power.   Yeah, they might screw that up, but yes, i trust them a hell of a lot more than ISPs who consistently do their utmost to screw people in pursuit of profit. Atleast government has the potential to work properly (even if it's not perfect). Government may (and probably will) overreach, but beats getting bent over by ISPs.  sidenote: You shouldn't slipper slope. "why wouldn't they just slip this in" isn't a valid argument. If it happens, best thing you can do is fight it.  Also, im pretty sure they're already allowed to regulate things like silkroad, kiddie porn sites etc, to the maximum of their technological capability. Those sites dont continue to exist because of legal reasons.
I don't think it's a coincidence that he did a 180 after Obama basically told him publically to stop fucking around.
Jesus. This is your first rodeo, isn't it?!
Because government isn't inherently evil and the "market" has failed. 
&gt; Outside of the major cities in Alaska it's pretty terrible.  Isn't that because you're dealing with tiny populations and HUGE areas to run infrastructure through? Under those conditions, caps and high costs make sense. Those networks were built with federal funds because it wouldn't be profitable for a corporation to have run internet to those areas at all (shades of the old Tennessee Valley Authority that brought electricity to then-rural areas).
What I would have liked to ask is how this legislation on "net neutrality" will have any real impact on the availability of competition in the ISP markets to actually provide good service and customer service to people?  The way I see it, my ISP choices will still be crap--I had no problem with traffic throttling etc. with my ISP, but the fact of the matter is that given the regional monopolies allowed by the local government and municipalities way-back-when, people still only have one or two realistic choices of ISPs, so there's no competition driving for better service or lower prices.
That doesn't inspire confidence. 
Wait wha
[deleted]
It's actually fantastic given you're in the middle of nowhere with nothing but mountains, moose and Palins around you. It's the price you pay for living in the proverbial wilderness. 
Really? How is it implemented into American society? Is it like Thanksgiving day? Do you have a specific day for it?  Is it instilled into every young child at school to not trust the American government? Do patriotic American parents stoically pass on this tradition to eager, America-loving children?  I'm curious as to how this tradition works.
"No open public debate on the initiative?" There has been, for the past several months. The FCC received over 4million comments, nevermind the # of hearings, discussions etc. You may have missed it because it wasn't being hyped by the media, but it was there.  The reason it's hidden is because they can't legally release it until the 2 republicans on the committee authorize it, apparently. (and they're busy throwing a tantrum).
30 days isn't long enough for you?
Eh, if people are acting like legitimate idiots, it's not an attitude issue to treat them as such.  I don't think you can make a decent argument for people circlejerking "obamanet" as being anything other than idiots.
But our rights have been marginalized to a point where the constitution is a joke... bullshit aside, answer the fucking question.
Our national day celebrates the treason of several men. 
So I believe that this whole thing is overwhelmingly positive, but recently I saw someone whose opinion I greatly respect post something about how this was a terrible thing for the internet because of potential taxes and more gov't monitoring of activity, less freedom of speech, etc. due to the Internet being classified as a "utility" now. Perhaps all of this is bullshit, I don't know, I just know that I respect this person's opinion and had never heard this perspective before. Do you have an answer for this perspective to help me understand the situation a little more?
The network is already built and is robust. Bandwidth caps aren't justified by low populations because less people on the network means less traffic, not more. The network was costly to build, but GCI is a huge and profitable company and the network costs were subsidised by the government. It's nothing more than a money grab. Lower caps mean more overages. Population and distance don't add up with these considerations. 
Basically, the FCC now legally has the authority to tell ISPs to knock it off if those ISPs start discriminating against certain websites, or trying to charge certain websites/companies for faster speeds (above the ordinary).  They aren't taking control of them like a utility. It's basically just the authority to tell them to stop doing stupid shit.
Can I expect my country (Canada) to follow in the US's footsteps and implement similar rules soon?
Are you lovers of .. cocklepops?
Surprisingly, yes.
What about DNS blocking?  Is that considered interfering?  I am pretty sure my ISP does that to twitch.tv.  Not a hard obstacle to overcome but the fact they do it is pretty scummy from my point of view, being a user of the website and considering how much I pay the ISP. 
well i does not matter now but i will say anyway. exactly what net neutrality laws were passed????? I know of none 
you're so sure that nothing is in the bill that you are ok with not having access to things that effect your use of the internet?  you seem rather sure of how innocent this is despite not having read any of it.
You're confusing public debate on the idea of net neutrality with public debate on what the proposed regulations say. We have absolutely no fucking idea what the regulations say because they aren't available to the public.
[deleted]
yes because laws getting passed before people can read them is best for all of us... i must be a complete wackado conspiritard to think otherwise.
Interesting.
[deleted]
Why 322?
In the FCC's defence, parenting groups played a large role in the baned words on TV
It should be even higher, let's push it to the title!
Good lord! Do you hear yourself mr. ~~Wheeler~~Weinberg?!
Gaming is pretty low bandwidth.  Theres no way gaming all by its self would ever approach a data cap.
All I've heard is how it's so great because now we won't have Internet fast/slow lanes.  But I find this confusing because as far as I can tell there were no intentions for any such thing (other than making some content providers have to pay more).  So I guess I'm just curious if that's really the only argument for this. 
[deleted]
Ahh, sorry. I interpreted "initiative" to be about n.n. in general.  I do agree we should've seen the regulations, but i think overall it's better than not having them, and potentially having them die in buearacracy. From what i've read, the biggest reason we haven't seen them is simply people who don't like them obstructing it as much as possible, so i'm fairly sympathetic.
No we really didn't.  Thanks for screwing up the Internet.
Policy: Help old ladies across the street     Guidelines: For expediency, use a gas powered forklift/bungee slingshot combo          Moral: Guidelines are important too
Have data caps been given thought?
I cannot imagine they have. It is **not** normal for the FCC to release a *draft* order before it's voted on. The supposed "blackout" is just a Republican shouting point.  We should be getting it soon.  Tom Wheeler said at the after-vote Press Q&amp;A that they,  1. Must get dissents in from the two dissenting commissioners   2. They'll have to look at them, There's a Court opinion that requires the majority to be responsive to the dissents.   3. Then they will publish on the web and file with the Federal Register for publication.  More detail was given later by Jon Sallet,  Q: Jim Puzzanghera of the L.A. Times;   "I wanna try again on some amount of specificity to when the order might be public. Of course, until it's public, it *is* a secret plan, just in terms of dictionary definition. How long would it typically take for an order of this length to be made public?"  A: Jon Sallet, FCC General Council;   "It's not a secret plan, Jim. It's a part of a process.   The process began with a public notice of proposed rulemaking,   a *lengthy* process of obtaining public comment,   the *normal* process of deliberation,   now we're going to go into the normal process by which commissioners issue, for example dissents, and the commission, for example, responds to those dissents.   And I want to explain that last piece...  For example, a recent DC Circuit opinion said that it was an obligation of a regulatory commission to engage in the arguments that were presented to it *including* the statements of any dissenting commissioners.   So we will work, as I said, as quickly as possible. It's not possible to give an average here or at least it's not possible for *me* to give an average. But our goal is to get the  process moving forward so that the whole order can be released, with of course all commissioner statements; it can be sent to the Federal Register, published in the Federal Register and then these rules will become effective 60 days after that publication."  Follow up Q:   "Do the lengths of the dissent, does that factor in here? The longer the dissent does [*] that more than you need to respond to?"  A:   "It's not a question of the length of the dissents. It's a question of this... and let me read from the DC Circuit opinion to which I earlier referred,  This is the DC Circuit saying, and I'm eliminating internal quotemarks and citations, 'It most emphatically remains the duty of *this* court to ensure that an agency engage the arguments raised before it, including the arguments of the agency's dissenting commissioners.'  We will do that as quickly as we can."   [*] I think there was a me/him/or CSPAN glitch :)  --- It should be noted that the commissioners also voted for "Editorial Privilege". Which means that they can go back over the Order and clean up any typos, footnotes, references, attributions, etc. Basically spit-and-polishing the, up until now, *draft* document. That does not mean they can go back and make fundamental material changes.  That may or may not add time to it's release. \**shrug*\*
Yeah, Mother Goose put similar things in perspective with the words "Once upon a time..."  Do you expect him to say, "sorry suckers here come the taxes and fees!!!"
All of those things still exist  anyways I guess im just not stupid enough to stay at a job where in being abused
Reddit is largely the blind leading the blind when it comes to politics.  The more I read into the history of the FCC and some of its more power grabbing moments, the more I'm afraid we just signed something we'll look back on in regret. We asked for a simple rule for ISPs, no paid prioritization. What we got is very open ended regulation by a branch of government, far beyond the "last mile" from the ISPs. Then we get all these heavily funded "grassroots" organizations and "advocacy groups" to come in and grassroots the fuck out of public forums like reddit to calm the waters when people have legitimate questions. 322 pages of legalese? Yea, sure. We just handed over a bit of the wild west and took a step away from the internet we know 
we have not gotten to that stage public will have at least 30days to review before rules go into effect
Because if memory serves that's how much the player won for essentially pissing his reputation and future in the pro scene away. 
I believe the FCC declared the internet a Title II utility.
So companies wanted more bandwidth and faster speeds and were willing to pay for it, and ISP's were happy to oblige. But since there is only a finite amount available, that comes at the expense of us regular users. We petition the government to involve themselves and keep it from happening. They win, and reclassify the internet as a public utility, which will be under new fees and taxes. We had a choice of paying the same for slower speeds, or paying more for faster. In essence, we opted to pay more for faster internet to keep other people from paying more for faster internet, because we didn't think people opting to pay more for faster internet was fair. Aside from the fact that it pissed off Comcast, what about this should I be happy about? How will this affect my costs?
To the address bar with you!
I only had a single upvote to give, this should be on top.
"dear FCC, some guy does a podcast where he makes jokes about _______ people and as a ________ person it offends me very much that you would allow something my tax dollars help pay to regulate contain such hate speech... do you hate _______ people? i'm going to start a parenting group of concerned _______ parents who object to this hate against ________ americans and none of us will vote for you if you don't do something about this.  [link to ________ anti-defimation league website and social media sites]  - a proud _______ american taxpayer."
The rules go into effect after they're open for public debate. 30 days after, not before.
Don't you think it's possible that you're endangering the future freedom of the Internet by unilaterally and arbitrarily declaring it "safe" all of a sudden? The gigantic corporations that  see it as an opportunity to exploit to the point of destruction are still out there, still just as powerful, and still just as determined.
Do you have fiber in Juneau?
"I fight for the users!"
this should be the top comment
You obviously don't know what you're talking about. The government can already do that with IPv4, and all the same ways of staying anonymous will work exactly the same with IPv6.
I thought I was bad at 350GB...
[deleted]
Arianity,  you are misinformed.  The two republicans are calling for the release of the document.
The rules don't go into effect until 30 days after their release. There is plenty of time for everyone to read the rules before they go into effect.
[deleted]
I have argued the same argument for 24 hours.  Everyone is clueless.  They have no idea what they've "won".  When they start getting taxed on their "free internet", I wonder if they will wake up then?
Nope. They already have the power to monitor your internet activity, and demand your personal info from the ISPs. They now have more power to regulate Comcast, not its users.
THREE HUNDRED AND TWENTY TWO ~~DOLLARS~~ PAGES
Does that mean AT&amp;T has to stop throttling my iPhone "unlimited" data plan?
Those aren't the same at all. Net neutrality *will* effect the life of every single American. Anybody who understand do what it is knows that. Unlawful detention on the other hand, is something most people just say "meh, won't happen to me." 
What stopped the government before this ruling?  It makes no difference in this regard.
Servailance is a figure of reddit's imagination? And here I was thinking that the NSA was sucking up all the data it could get its hands on. Glad you put that scandal to rest! /s
[deleted]
Ok. So say it turns out the vast majority of Americans are against the rules as they are written. Do they get reversed?  NO. They will go into effect whether we like it or not, because it passed the vote already.   What the fuck are you people talking about? There is NO democratic process here. We have NO idea what we're celebrating. There is no transparency here.
My understanding is: the way the law is written, whenever the FCC releases draft rules they have to open up a public comment period, which takes weeks or months.  So if they released it before the vote, they'd need to open up another comment period. Then if they made changes and released it again, another comment period  an infinite loop. Given the law as it stands, there's always one last phase where they have to go heads down and vote on a rule.  Yes, that means that nobody outside a tiny number of people at the FCC has read the final version. And yes, it's crazy the law is written this way.   That said, there are several people in the community of groups that have been working on this who were in constant conversation with the people drafting these rules and have a good idea of what's in them. That includes Free Press, as well as experts like Barbara van Schewick. So once we got close to the vote, and had good intel that the rules were pretty strong, it would have been crazy to ask them to be released.   It would've given Comcast and friends another 8 weeks or maybe more to regroup and figure out a way to block the rules. (And we'd still not be in a position to know exactly what the final rules were until after the vote, due to the problem above.)  Next up: bring American regulatory agencies up to modern standards of transparency! Who here wants to work on that? (Gah, not me)
Exactly, thank you. 
Bro, thank you! People keep forgetting government and corporations are intertwined QUITE seriously, which is how we got into this problem. Point being; change from them is HIGHLY, HIGHLY unlikely 
You did it! :)
To clarify it was Solo, a popular russian player, who bet on the opposing team and threw a game winning 322. Basically the Pete Rose of DotA.
Thanks! That's ... actually, not all that comforting. But, no less than before.
While naming yourself something like "fight for the future" already implies that those on the other side of that "fight" don't have the future in mind, I find it disingenuous to dismiss the arguments of your opponents offhand, simply claiming that they are shilling for the 'other.' [In this case, calling them "team cable" and laying the disagreement down to ties to Verizon, rather than legitimate concerns]  The most disheartening element of this entire affair is the inability of so many NN advocates - many of them my close friends, who I believe to mean well, but not put in much consideration beyond that - to consider that those on the other side have good intentions. Blocking paid prioritization, for example, is a wonderfully populist notion, but it's simply bad economics and restricts the market.  Setting up relationships or infrastructure to deliver goods or content faster than competitors is a core element of good business. The arguments against things like paid prioritization could be used at the post office when you want to pay extra to overnight that last-minute birthday present. "We can't let them create fast-tracks for shipping!"   If anyone thinks overnight shipping becomes the standard - or even remains available - after that, they know nothing of economics.
Please name for me one thing that has gotton better and/or cheaper once the government regulated it?
Makes sense.  Thanks for clearing that up.  
Also, re: the 322 pages of rules, I've heard the actual rules themselves are just a few pages. Things like: "no blocking", "no throttling", etc. The rest is context, legal justification of the rules, stuff like that.   All the details matter of course, but it's not really the case that there are 322 pages of mystery rules.  Another really sleazy thing that some critics of the FCC (including Commissioner Pai himself) have done here is they've taken aspects the way the FCC has *always* worked (and they know this) and then pretended to be **absolutely shocked** that it's acting this way now.  One example of this was the fake outrage at President Obama saying what he thought the FCC should do (many presidents have done this, including Bush, Reagan, Clinton, and Nixon). Another example is this snafu about transparency, or about "322 pages of rules".  It's not that the FCC shouldn't be more transparent, but it's sleazy of these guys, who know the process well, to pretend that it doesn't always work this way.
It appears to be an extremely remote 5 horse town out on an edge of the Bering Sea. They have...... an airstrip. And that may be it (and also the only way in or out of the place). I'd expect the cost of living there to be sky high. Like, $20+ for a 12-pack of Coke high, if it has to be flown in.   That collective *may actually be able to justify those prices.* \**shrug*\*
[deleted]
No they haven't read anything, they (usually liberals) just blindly believe that anything their liberal cohorts say is good, is, good. It is like the healthcare overhaul, when Nancy Pelosi said: "You will find out what is in the bill, after it is written and passed into law". 
No they haven't read anything, they (usually liberals) just blindly believe that anything their liberal cohorts say is good, is, good. It is like the healthcare overhaul, when Nancy Pelosi said: "You will find out what is in the bill, after it is written and passed into law".
They are pretty good at war.
The groups in this AmA worked on SOPA. And on NSA surveillance. We know that some Democrats voting for something does not make it okay! :/   People had a basic sense of what was in the rules, given the kinds of questions they were getting from the FCC and the kinds of conversations that were happening.
[deleted]
Definitely.  Also, blocking encrypted traffic willy-nilly would be an extremely poor choice for ISPs, as I am relatively sure that there is a precedent against that.  I wouldn't count on bittorrent traffic being throttled on the grounds that it is copyrighted content.  It really isn't very effective anyway because VPNs are cheap and accesible.
[deleted]
No they haven't read anything, they (usually liberals) just blindly believe that anything their liberal cohorts say is good, is, good. It is like the healthcare overhaul, when Nancy Pelosi said: "You will find out what is in the bill, after it is written and passed into law".
I can't help but notice you didn't answer the question.
At least 30 days, probably more
[deleted]
It's not in "secrecy," like the FCC is hiding it to trick the world. Federal agencies have a very long comment period prior to writing rules, which is announced in the Federal Register. After the comment period closes, they go write the rules and then release them to be implemented.   Agencies only write technical rules that effect the particular group they're tasked to engage with (FCC=telcom, for example). They are written by experts who are a part of the bureaucratic structure of the Federal Government, not be elected officials. While the bureaucracy is usually made up of Executive appointments at the upper levels, those who are doing the writing are generally apolitical in action. The Federal bureaucracy is a technical appendix to our government, through the Executive Branch, not an elected "democratic" body.  This is the system that is used by every Federal Agency to pass rules within their domains. If the rules are shitty, they can be changed through any of the three branches of the government, IIRC. Also, the 300 page document is ~8 pages rules and ~292 references and precedents.  EDIT: sp 
I think the difference between the two issues is that it's actually harder to build an argument for eliminating those laws, than it is to build an argument for net neutrality.  Many people have a really hard time thinking about such emotionally wrenching topics like war, terrorism, and national security without falling into certain psychological traps. And people in power exploit that.  With the Internet, it's something most people understand in a very pragmatic, day-to-day way, since they use it all the time. So the work of convincing and organizing people is easier. This in particular is why I really enjoy working on Internet issues.   Plus people come to it with less prejudice and partisan baggage, for the most part (though we're seeing some of that right now). 
For some light reading here is the section of US code that is title II no tl; dr's, no misleading statements, just the actual text.  http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?path=/prelim@title47/chapter5/subchapter2&amp;edition=prelim
i'm sure within those 30 days it would be real easy to stop things people don't agree with.
Obama could tell them to change it, or Congress could pass a bill changing it, or the Supreme Court could change it. Pretty much a cornucopia of options available to change it.
[deleted]
winning 322 what? rubles? dollars? i'm so confused!
Who funds your group? 
So wait, did he win 322 dollars or was he up 322 points in the game? I don't understand.
That's simply not true. These FCC rules do not give the government any new power to block websites. That simply wasn't part of the discussion.  If Tom Wheeler went psychopathic / politically suicidal in the last days before the vote and snuck something like that in there, we will be the first ones to try to fix it, and it wouldn't be hard to do.  We'd have the whole Internet with us.
Nice. Wasn't before, that's all. 
Most of the time they represent what the industries they regulate want. This was a fortunate exception.  Another way to look at these rules is as a foothold. The next time cable companies try some ridiculous scam like "oh whoops our routers are clogged, sorry your site is broken, um, pay us maybe?" there will be something we can do about it!
Regarding "no blocking," can I host my own web, mail, and ftp servers when these rules go into effect?  Because my ISP blocks those services today.
Red baloons.
You are not getting the answer you want because it does not work that way. If 10 out of 100 users are consuming 35% of available bandwidth. That means that the other 90 users are not making requests for that time period. If that 35% traffic is running and other users start streaming at the same rate and drive utilization above 100%, traffic will be randomly dropped from all users, reguardless of who it is or when they started making requests. This is the danger and issue of the common practice of over subscription. There was a report that set the average for rural middle mile oversubscription was around 20:1, meaning the same bandwidth was sold 20 times over.  here's a mind trip for you... any link in the internet can only be used by one users packet at a time. In other words, a 50% utilized circuit is really 100% utilized 50% of the time over some time period.  
I believe its the number that represents Skull and Cross bones. (Fraternity full of powerful people.)  EDIT: Skull and Bones, lol. Not sure where I pulled the cross out of. 
Not sure tbh. Euros maybe? 
There are betting sites for e-sports games.  He bet enough against himself that he would be rewarded $322 if his own team lost.  His team then proceeded to throw.
I am not worried about net neutrality being the outcome. I am worried about the government blocking unpleasant minority political and non-political speech from minority groups. If the government started blocking occupy wall street or tea party organization sites I guarantee that most people would go "meh, won't happen to my views" 
1 gigabyte of data costs less than a penny to distribute. In one hour, the average amount of data from Netflix is two gigabytes.   Also, the Internet isn't classified as a utility in the way water or electricity is. 
He throw the game for $322
Canadian here. Can you come save [my internet] ( http://support.bell.ca/Internet/Usage/Network-management) now please?
How much of this recent ruling would you say is this the work of groups like yours, and how much would you say it's the work of the lobbyists representing companies like Facebook and Google? 
Stop trying to break up the net neutrality circle jerk. Questions like this will never be answered because there isn't one that suits their agenda due to the fact they don't even know what the FCC voted for yet. 
Fun fact: title II already gave the fcc the power to sensor the internet for content they deemed inappropriate a long time ago. It states it's illegal to knowingly send lewd materials to minors over the internet and also makes child pornography illegal over the internet. 
What are you biggest fears going forward.? What will keep you up at night? What should we be diligently be aware of?
But you didn't answer the question...
This isn't a bill though.   The power the FCC has is given to it by a bill Congress passed and became law ages ago. And the FCC can't just give itself new powers.  For the past 10 years or so, people have been asking the FCC for rules to stop ISPs from screwing with peoples' Internet (because ISPs were starting to do that!)   They gave us some rules before, but those were broken. Yesterday, they gave us new rules that we think will hold up better, and will do a better job at achieving their goal than the older rules.  That's what happened here. The FCC didn't get "new powers". They had this power already. They were just refusing to use it properly to protect the public, because of pressure from the ISPs. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
 Toad the wet sprocket
It legitimately scares me that there is no answer to this question. I honestly want to know what's going to stop the government from overreaching too. But apparently nothing is...
you seem so sure of that statement despite not reading a single word of what was passed...  all i'm asking for is to see the damn bill...  and until it's realeased nobody has any idea what they are talking about... they can only base their opinions on the past history of the FCC.  and based on how the FCC handeled TV and radio i feel confident that there is more than just "keeping the tubes/pipes clean"  7 dirty words, fairness doctrine, etc... etc...  show us the bill.
Versus the FCC, which literally censors TV.  Yeah, we're pitting the internet in great hands.
Yeah but the thing is, the Internet is important, and what's your solution?  Sure, we could wait until wireless software defined mesh is awesome, but by that time Comcast has turned the Internet into something a lot more like cable TV, and that sucks. If they'd managed to start that "paid fastlane" crap, every year that went by would've meant irreversible damage to the Internet as a public sphere, to the quality of our news and conversations, and to the degree we were free to speak, be creative, start businesses, revolutions, etc.  We had to nip this thing in the bud to keep the Internet awesome.   Then the question is, how do you do it? What force is bigger and stronger than these companies that can whip them into shape. The only answer is either a) government or b) some super organized revolution that probably actually looks kind of like a government when you let it play out, though maybe it's a better one (or maybe not).  Governments do a bunch of shitty things, but *sometimes* you can get them to do what you want. (And that doesn't mean they'll do more or less shitty things in the future  it just means you got what you wanted.)  :)   Anyway, this is a bit in the weeds. It's been a really long week everybody. I just came back to the thread because I heard it was live and still on the frontpage. I think all my colleagues are asleep or partying. My wife is gonna kill me, I gotta sign off :)  Holmes for the Future
Politicians are the blind leading the blind when it comes to politics
[deleted]
Potato. Feed family one year.
Aaaaaand it's off the monitor.  Good job.
Just like the IRS and NSA right? 
My understanding is we're only talking about interconnection with last mile providers (which often have local monopolies and captive users). So, no. There's general consensus that the rest is a very complex and well-functioning market, and I think the FCC has been pretty clear about this. 
What is the question they're supposed to answer? I just read a bunch of paranoid anti-government rhetoric that sounds like it was written by a 19 year old living in his parent's basement.
Also, it wasn't just netflix. Cogent and Level 3 (transit providers for many sites and services) were also getting shaken down.  [See this post on the Level 3 blog and decide for yourself](http://blog.level3.com/open-internet/chicken-game-played-child-isps-internet/).
Of course they haven't, they're part of the problem here.  Supporting this damn thing without knowing what they even put in it or even asking.  What a joke.
We just have to pass these regulations, to know what is in them. 
The users pay for that bandwidth. They should be able to use it how they want. Also, bandwidth gets massively cheaper each year, but your cable bill never goes down.  Bandwidth isn't the big cost here. The hard part is wiring all those homes. And then the problem is, once you do, you've got a dangerous amount of market power over the internet as a whole, without the right rules.
Add to that, how is it that 3 unelected commissioners get to determine the fate of the most important communications pipeline for 300+ million people?  And was this tiered pricing created merely to create a panic for the penny-pinching masses to run into the arms of Big Brother?
[deleted]
No, WE did it! :)
Are you concerned at all like what happened when the FCC took over the telephone system and technology was stagnate for 50 years and after the ease of regulations useful stuff suddenly popped up like call waiting, voicemail, etc?   Also, do you trust the FCC / govt to regulate the internet and not block content themselves that they disagree with?  Or what about if someone petitions the FCC to block certain websites or content?  Finally, what about torrenting?  Doesn't this now allow the FCC to literally attack any website and shut it down?
Didn't Pete Rose only bet on his own team?
322 usd ? Rubles ? Euro ?
[deleted]
[deleted]
See the reply up top! :)
I don't consider that to be an acceptable answer given how important this issue is.  Three unelected bureaucrats just implemented new rules for the internet by way of regulatory fiat, and did so without releasing the rules or responding to requests for information from congress.  Regardless of your feelings about Net Neutrality, that type of behavior raises a red flag.  Public comment and revision can and should be a part of this process.  Instead, we got bureaucrats we never elected, appointed by politicians we don't like, to create regulations we don't know about.  This is not how a healthy democracy is supposed to function.  We were promised democratic transparency in our government.  They are now passing regulations and telling us to our faces that we can't see them.  If you are not bothered by this, then there really is nothing else I can say.
[deleted]
It was a false flag, self-created "problem" so the penny-pinching masses would run to Big Brother for protection.  Works every time.  Will be as Neutral as Affordable Care, Homeland Security, and Acts of Patriotism.  The young and dumb of this country is only surpassed by their unearned hubris.  
That's false, it absolutely gives the government more power.  Saying it "gives the ISPs less" is coy semantics.
[deleted]
Yep. It seems to have worked there. One interesting thing though is that even with all that potential for competition it still consolidates to 3 or 4 ISPs. That's better than 1, but still you need net neutrality rules to keep them from blocking and throttling services (which was happening in Europe a lot).  But the unbundling idea makes a lot of sense. I mean, you need competition to keep prices and service reasonable. And the need to wire every home in a city is a recipe for a natural monopoly. If every entrant to the market has to do that, you're not going to have competition (plus it's terribly inefficient).
No. Their response is that they will only interfere when a complaint is made. Then they will examine it according to this 'just and reasonable' standard which apparently has a lot of case law behind it. There is still an avenue of appeal to a court.
Culture. You can't touch it. Pick it up or throw it. But it's real. And yes, American culture is very distrustful of government power.  I'm sure there have been hundreds of studies on this if you wanna know more.
Ooh that's a good question. I'm not sure, but I think you would be able to file a complaint.   Also, that's bullshit that they do that.
*Skull and Bones, a secret society, not a fraternity
http://motherboard.vice.com/read/fcc-confirms-net-neutrality-order-wont-be-released-today  I've seen this in several places (and more reputable sources). Can you clarify?  edit: skimming a bit more, it seems like all 4 are involved in the edit process. It seems to be (?) delayed for "dissenting opinions", which seems to be interpreted by some sources as people who voted against it.But the Dems have some edits they'd like.  http://consumerist.com/2015/02/27/4-things-we-still-dont-know-about-net-neutrality/  Although i still haven't seen anything about them specifically calling for the release, and it's apparently normal procedure (if dumb).
"We'll only interfere when a complaint is made, you can trust us, we promise!"
If the FCC is now in charge of regulating the Internet (for all intents and purposes), what's stopping them from regulating Internet content the same way TV and Radio content is regulated?
DotA 2 'skins,' I believe.  They are essentially cosmetics for your hero.  But they have real world dollar values.  These correlate to prices directly available on Valve's market or, alternatively, on what some call the 'black market.'  In the 'black market' things are cheaper but you get real money instead of Valve bucks; there is also a significant chance that you will get scammed.  The Valve (company who makes DotA2) marketplace was overseen by a market professional (i.e. someone who made millions off of the stock market).  They're a multi-billion dollar company, they know their shit.
This is the most BS reply ever.  "It will help people!" Doesn't tell us what is **in** the actual regulation that was passed without open discussion or being released on the web beforehand.  I see all these people screaming how great this is for the internet without even investigated the fact that we've just given the FCC the power to **CENSOR THE INTERNET** just like they do with TV. 
35% of what? The speed is the capacity. You transmit x bits per second. Your frame is probably 1500 bytes in size. So you get so many packets per second. What percentage are video? Don't care under these rules... I wouldn't care without the rules. Bits are bits. 
Maybe this is just complacency. But do you think ISP's would be willing to double down once again on this issue? if this gets to the DC Circuit and they fail again they would lose even more control over the situation. In the FCC hands they at least of the potential to nudge it there way over time. But if it gets to the DC Circuit it seems the risk would be to high.
[deleted]
What makes you believe their "just and reasonable" standards can't be bought? At least with corporations you can refuse your business, but with your own government not held accountable, you're royally screwed. You put A LOT of faith and trust in government agencies. 
No, because of the way the FCC works. It's already been explained below, but the whole "NOBODY READ THE RULES THERE'S 322 PAGES OF MYSTERY" thing is a misleading conservative talking point.
&gt; Are you concerned at all like what happened when the FCC took over the telephone system and technology was stagnate for 50 years and after the ease of regulations useful stuff suddenly popped up like call waiting, voicemail, etc?  In 1984 the telephone company wasn't deregulated, the monopoly was broken up. That's when innovation took off. It wasn't deregulation, it was breaking a monopoly. Once that was done, new phone companies started to pop up, and competition created innovation, and it was all regulated.
It is somewhat ironic that patriotism is synonymous with treason, yes, but our country was founded by revolting and seceding. 
Not a utility, a common carrier.  
I'm sure this has already been addressed in one form or another but I'm just going to ask...  How does the reclassification under Title II open up the Internet to more government/federal control? Is this possible?  Is there a history of things going under Title II seeing stronger federal control than they saw before?  This is something I see many people worrying about. 
I don't think you know much about the Pete Rose situation.
Well, to my knowledge ISPs can still set their own prices however the FCC can regulate these prices if they are deemed "too extreme". There is no actual numbers, to my knowledge, as to how much you will save from this. 
Thank you for that. It's exactly what I needed as a response to these type of arguments.
Does net neutrality mean that comcast will no longer be able to enforce data caps in my area?
You shouldn't use that quote. It's stupid and makes no sense. The First Amendment limits the governments ability to restrict our speech.  How are these FCC regulations in any way restricting the government?  It's not, it's giving them access no matter how hard you spin it.
Protecting the greatest tool in the history of humanity. Pretty fucking important. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
Yes, but not nearly to the extent that it used to. Pretty much every aspect of our lives are cleaner in some way. (and the fact that they aren't perfect just shows that we aren't doing the best job).   You can't argue that no more lead paint, less acid rain,ingredient lists on food etc... Those all came about because of government. Not benevolent business. The free market is a very powerful tool- but it isn't perfect. Personally, i'm pretty darn glad i don't have to live in shanghai-level smog. Or worry about tainted baby formula. Or a million other things we used to have to worry about. They didn't magically disappear.  You're also assuming people had a choice. They weren't all massively "stupid", and then suddenly got smarter when labor laws/unions formed. Employers have a pretty massive edge when it comes to bargaining power.  Are you happy with your ISP?Your healthcare? You enjoy paying more than other parts of the world? I don't think you're stupid. Most people HATE their isp (for good reason). Many have 1 or few options. Monopolies are bad. The law they're using was literally created thanks to a monopoly (AT&amp;T Bell). It's not random. it's doing exactly what it's supposed to.  History shows that you're wrong- because we used to have no regulation, and that's exactly what happened. It's what happens in underdeveloped portions of the world. I'm not sure what you think makes America magically different. we tried "no regulation". It didn't work.
Apparently not. Baseball is the one with the oval ball, right?
You need to read up on IP protocol. Your location is already attached to your IP at all times provided you don't share your IP with several people in a similar location. And IP is the way data tracks you down, it is intrinsically a way to find you. GPS is a mobile triangulation device.
Yeah, but don't you agree that CONgress and the public have the right to review any specific proposal and decide whether or not it constitutes sound policy? And the commission has the responsibility to defend any new proposal in public discourse and debate? 
Have we closed future bills like SOPA and PIPA ?
What people aren't understanding about this is:   the reason "bandwidth hogs" cause issues for other subscribers is the ISPs have oversold their capacity. If I have ten gallons of water a day and sell a gallon each per day to twenty customers because I assume the average person only drinks a half gallon of water per day, if everybody gets thirsty at once I have customers who aren't getting what they pay for.  To then turn around and tell my customers "the reason you can't have the water you pay me for is because my other customers are greedy" is pretty deceitful.   The honest thing to do would be exactly what my small local ISP did a week or two ago, which is to have the CEO email all customers and say "we recently upgraded everyone's speeds and kept the prices the same. We quickly realized we have a network capacity problem now. We have come up with a plan to increase capacity and expect to have it in place by mid March. Sorry for the inconvenience."  ImOn is a wonderful ISP and one of the only positives of living in Cedar Rapids. 
I'm happy about the decision but I'm afraid it will be reversed some day. What are the chances of that happening?
Hooray the Internet is safe..for the government to now tax! You like that "universal service fee" on your phone bill? Get ready to have one in your ISP bill too! Thank you nanny government for making us safe from non existent threats so you can find a new way to fuck over tax payers!
Unfortunately the process is imperfect, and I agree with what Holmes from FFTF wrote.  It's interesting that in some sense this process is an accommodation to the recognized fact that our political system is so corrupt.  As I understand it, the "sunshine" period is born in part from concern that hanging everything out in the open during that last week would make it even easier for corporate lobbyists to push for changes until the final second -- that the corporate lobbyists are so powerful that the public interest is served by cutting out interaction with the public (inclusive of lobbyists) during the final push around a rule.  It's this awful twisted/inverted thing, but there's some sense to those underlying concerns.  And while the people who run the FCC can have some control over FCC processes, they don't control the broader political system in ways that can make it meaningfully less corrupt.
Republicans are saying it's going to drive prices up and the government will control content(stop dissenting views), is there any truth to this?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Be glad that the Middle East atracts that particular breed of nutter. Better to line them up and mow them down in neat lines. One idiot after the next. The whole of human history runs red with with blood spilt. This species has NOT gotten past that at this point. No. Fucking. Way.  And don't you worry, the FBI was completely right a few years back when they declared Right-Wing terrrorism the biggest threat to America. See, we are far enough away from the hotbed of Mooslum extremism to avoid most of that. The Michigan Muslims have it tooo good. We have our own breed of fanatical Talibangelists brewing. And they're ready to embrace the term. Seriously.  I'm just hoping we can begin to recruit them for the modern day crusade against the ISIS plauge. Send 'em all to western Iraq and Nuke Em FROM ORBIT!   Only way to be sure!
OK, but what's that to do with the FCC?
This IS a rule saying  "leave it alone". Turns out it wasn't the government that needed to be told that but the ISPs. 
It seems we have an option - be slaves to corporations or slaves to bureaucrats.  Please forgive me if I don't praise the lobbyist on either side.
It will if you are always trying new games and mods.  
&gt;You enjoy paying more than other parts of the world?  You think regulation makes costs go down?  &gt;we tried "no regulation".  Never in US history, have we ever tried "no regulation"
And if you watched the discussion yesterday, they spent over an hour describing the contents of the final order.  Any lies, or even lies of omission, from the Dems would have severe reputational/social/political consequences for them.  While there is a chance that there's something buried in the esoterica of the order that we won't like, the move to Title II is tremendous, and -- to assign it a duly high but somewhat arbitrary value -- is like 90% of the battle.
It's partly BECAUSE of labor laws that you have the ABILITY to look for another job. You have the time in your day to look because labor laws were needed to limit the amount of time in a day that companies could require you to be clocked in.  Its because of labor laws that you are required to be paid (what used to be) living wages, so you can afford more than just room and board in some tenement slum.. You know, like being able to afford monthly internet access to look for new jobs online.
There's apparently two words that were slipped in as far as what they will rule on and govern "general conduct". The rest of the 322 pages doesn't really matter. The providers will use campaign contributions to get their desires met. You and I will simply bow to another bureaucrats wishes and jump on Reddit to complain.
&gt;Setting up relationships or infrastructure to deliver goods or content faster than competitors is a core element of good business.  Obviously doing this would net many companies (the ISPs) lots of extra money, making it "good business" for them. However, it would make the playing field incredibly crooked for companies using the ISPs, directing consumer use/spending to a path of content monopolies (monopolies that are chosen by the ISPs themselves, in the end). There is no precedent or solid argument that indicates the Federal government should be interested in helping ISPs to the detriment of content providers.   To another of your points, there is no precedent demonstrating that ISPs would be making *actual* fast-tracks rather than simply throttling down content creators who don't pay for "fast lane" usage. These are the same ISPs that are complaining that their glacially slow, &lt;25Mbps speeds can no longer be called broadband. They are obviously not interested in increasing their revenue (either consumer-side or business-side) through increasing speed.
so gold for asking the right questions. personally, I think we are going to regret this....I just don't trust that Tom Wheeler. The whole idea of a free and open internet but a 322 page document out lining regulations that have to be passed before they can be read. its horse shit. 
Yep, we're depending on dice, not sober adults coming to a consensus. As long as the Internet exists, it has a job of fixing this nonsense.
Two completely different fights. One down, one to go.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Because Barry tells us it's all okay! 
I think being cautious of the government setting up the internet to track people's locations is a valid concern, considering what they did with phones and their track record with spying recently. The FCC is not a spying organization directly, but they could lay the framework down for government surveillance to easily follow, so being cautious of the framework they use is understandable.
[deleted]
So, an example would be...? 
[deleted]
I assume that users could still be throttled during high traffic for extended heavy use, so long as it is applied indiscriminately by data transferred and not by content. This would ensure that lightweight use such as email would not be compromised (theoretically you could download 20GB of email and be throttled, but that won't happen).  However, ISPs have an obligation to deliver a reliable speed up to a specified bandwidth cap, and the FCC just raised those standards as well. If a network is too crowded and users don't get the speeds they were promised, it no longer qualifies as broadband internet. ISPs circumvented this by blocking the largest source of data, Netflix, technically maintaining broadband speeds, but not to your chosen service. Clears up their pipes and as television providers, eliminates their biggest competition. Now that that's strictly forbidden, their only other option is to upgrade their infrastructure, lay down more cable so that the service works as advertised.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Now that net neutrality is passed, what safeguards will be in place so government won't have the ability to censor content and use their newly found powers to do anything bad?  We needed to stop rampant big businesses, but we also gave way to a possible new evil. Will you continue to work towards putting safeguards?
How could this be a good thing?!  Are we all going to blindly get excited about a government agency making a power grab?  Do we honestly believe that the FCC regulating anything in the private sector will improve our lives?  
What did you discover about the history of the FCC and some of it's more power-grabbing moments that led you to this conclusion?   I agree with you, I think we're definitely going to regret this. But I'm curious, and I think people here should know as well.
[deleted]
[deleted]
&gt;This isn't a bill though.  It's regulation passed by people none of us elected, and who couldn't be bothered to share what these regulations are.  &gt;The power the FCC has is given to it by a bill Congress passed and became law ages ago. And the FCC can't just give itself new powers.  Just like the NSA, IRS, and the police, right?  The fact is, executive agencies are increasingly passing rules governing our lives and they are doing so by people who we did not elect into office.  There are so many regulations being passed, lawmakers literally have [no idea](http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052702304319804576389601079728920) how many exist now.  We're approaching a point where bureaucrats will have more influence on laws and regulations than our representatives.  This ruling by the FCC is part of much larger problem.  &gt;For the past 10 years or so, people have been asking the FCC for rules to stop ISPs from screwing with peoples' Internet (because ISPs were starting to do that!)  Aren't these ISPs a by-product of government regulation in the first place?  We should be nuking the offending ISPs and regulations for this problem - not the entire internet.  &gt;They gave us some rules before, but those were broken. Yesterday, they gave us new rules that we think will hold up better, and will do a better job at achieving their goal than the older rules.   I would prefer to not re-use the same strategy that failed last time.  As of right now, there is nothing guaranteeing these regulations will work (because we don't know what they are yet) or survive the Supreme Court.  &gt;That's what happened here. The FCC didn't get "new powers". They had this power already. They were just refusing to use it properly to protect the public, because of pressure from the ISPs.  This is what really bothers me: you guys openly admit the FCC has let you down and sided with ISPs in the past, even after regulations were implemented.  There's actually a name for [this.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regulatory_capture)  What guarantees do we have this won't happen again?  How many times would the FCC have to break their promise before you changed your mind? Twice?  Three times? Ten times?
So what is your solution?  To make it public, and then comments force revisions, then the new draft is made public again, and then comments force revisions again, then the new draft is made public again, and then comments force revisions again then the new draft is made public again, and then comments force revisions again then the new draft is made public again, and then comments force revisions again then the new draft is made public again, and then comments force revisions again, ...  Eventually you have to have a final revision that's voted on.  The only reason it's not been made public yet is because Republicans are refusing to comment.  The final revision that was voted on was brought there based on previous drafts and comments, which lead to this one being a title II classification adapted for the internet.  If there is a bunch of bullshit in it, like you are paranoid about it, this is not the end of the road on the issue.
YES!! I totally agree.  I have RCN and I found a way to get around these policies if you contact them in advance about it, but you also waive some of your services in exchange.  ALWAYS make sure you read these contracts, I know they're long, but it's worth knowing, especially if you're more than just an average user.
*yet
Bold. 
"reddit seems to loves the government and think government can do no wrong."  I LOLed there. 
You still won't be able to really run a mail server off of a residential connection, since most major email providers (GMail, Hotmail, Yahoo, etc.) permanently blacklisted all residential ISP ranges years ago to block spam.  That's a security measure that they have every right to take, and these new rules won't change that.  Web and FTP should already work, even Comcast doesn't block them for me.
I want to cheer for the fact that companies like Comcast can't keep treating us like shit, but do you really think our government, who has a worse track record than any company can do anything positive?
But why haven't we seen the bill?   There is your question.
Yea, you can use up your monthly cap in an hour and twenty three minutes at that rate.   You can literally, on the first of the month, start downloading, and be capped and charged at 1:23AM. 
Straight to the dome
&gt; Also, the 300 page document is ~8 pages rules and ~292 references and precedents.  You can't really know if that's true if the documents haven't been released.
&gt; It gives ISPs less.  And how is that enforced?
Asks for transparency  *gets yelled at for being republican 
[deleted]
so like...how far does it go before just becoming harassment to everyone?
Finally we can stop providers from treating bandwidth like a finite resource. 
If so, we are fucked and basically just granted Comcast et al their monopolies forever.  No new company is going to spend money to take on that sort of bullshit headache.
The reason it's significant is that the other thing they stood to win was recognition and a future in eSports, which has seen a meteoric rise over the last few years. By throwing the game, they shot themselves in the leg professionally, which will have a likely lifelong influence on how they're viewed by both the community and potential sponsors.  **EDIT:** Plus, are you *sure* you'd take the money? For $322 you'd make a complete and utter jackass of yourself in front of the entire world? That's awfully cheaply bought, as far as dignity goes.
[deleted]
It depends what you compare it to, and what you mean by regulation. Regulation  in the sense of quality (no lead paint) obviously make costs go up.   Regulation in monopoly/duopoly cases it's definitely cheaper, and ideally brings more competition. Rent seeking makes prices go up. A good example is healthcare- it's regulated in europe, yet they pay far cheaper for similar levels of care. (in broadband, you can make a decent argument about geography being an issue, but there are plenty of other examples).  Basically, anything that is required to fix a broken market (because markets have flaws, like monopolies, or markets not clearing, insider trading, etc) decreases. In theory, in a working market, you don't need to regulate leadless paint, because if a company does that, some other company won't, and people will stop buying the lead. In reality, it doesn't happen. Hence, the regulation "no lead in paint" is born.  Same thing here. In theory,if an ISP charges for fast lane services, people would just go to a competitor. In reality, we don't have a really competitive market. And ISPs were trying to milk fast lane $$. So the government stepped in as a last resort. If they hadn't (and fought it in court), this never would've happened. The FCC has been doing its best to *not* classify ISPs under Title II.  There's a reason flying, utilities, ISPs etc, are highly regulated (there's a trend: capital intensive industries, where existing competitors become oligopolies and can sink any competition, which leads to higher prices).   Perhaps not in US history (although i bet you could find something if you looked hard enough, especially in a brand new industry). We are a young nation. Simply go back further in history. Either way, you don't need a literal "no regulation" to make the point.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Jungle Shouldn't exist, period.
You are my hero. Can I suck your gigantic penis, please?
The FCC rules are, by definition, regulation of the internet.  The first amendment limits/regulates government.  Idiot.
Bandwidth is not a finite resource that gets used up. It is not water.   If an ISP sells service to its customers that gives them an Internet connection at 40mbps, they should have enough capacity and bandwidth to deliver that service in its full form to every customer.   If they do not have enough bandwidth, than they cannot deliver their product as advertised. 
Because it has not been released.  Idiot.
[deleted]
aw fuk
It was kinda impressive tbh- that even though cable corporations can be pretty messed up, they still realize the value of making sure that CSPAN, the only way that most people are able to watch obscure governmental stuff without flying to DC, stays impartial and comprehensive. I appreciated that.
[deleted]
I want to drop verizon now. Citation?
Fuck you communist pig.
It was about 6th when he said that 2 hours before you commented. 
Were you guys worried you might not succeed? or were you confident in succeeding your goals?
Is the title of this thread a not-so-subtle request for reddit gold?  More seriously, Title II was written in the 1930's, are you concerned about any of the language that wasn't updated failing to meet the needs of a communication system the authors never could have possibly envisioned? Additionally, as far as I've been able to tell, this ruling doesn't directly address preferential treatment of data in the case of "ISP A releases VideostreamA to compete with Netflix. ISP A also has data caps (the kind still allowed). Traffic between their users and Netflix counts against the data cap, but traffic between their users and VideostreamA doesn't. Is this already addressed in the current ruling?
Yes, I want to say its at 550 gb
Juneau, so yeah. 
How about when they auctioned off the old T-band Public OTA television spectrum to the highest bidders?  Who were the 2 highest bidders?  AT&amp;T and Verizon.  Kinda makes you go hmmmm.
No fiber. At least if we do, I'm out of the loop. But I don't really keep up on that stuff. 
Only for non paid TV, and only because there are many many people out there that actually want that restriction of content. Because they can't control their kids or they're too damn puritanical to police themselves or something.   Cable restricts itself for the same reason. Nobody tells them to. 
That is some serious bullshit that they block servers,
[deleted]
Comment was made elsewhere that if the FCC allowed the rules to go public they would be required by law to have another 'public comment period'. That would take forever and the last public comment period set their servers on fire.
Does anyone really think that these organizations and protests had ANYTHING to do with the decision? Ill pretend most of you arent that naive.
I've read a summary of the rules. The full text cannot be a drastic departure from that summary. If there are loopholes we'll fight them, but it's guaranteed the majority of the order is exactly what we fought for. It's not ideal but this has been the FCC standard procedure since 1992.
Yes. And not available in most areas. I live less than five miles from the UAF Campus, and I get speeds that sometimes aren't appreciably faster than dial up. 
It limits ISP's ability to restrict our internet.
[deleted]
So post it here. I'm amazed that it's not what you wanted but close enough is ok with you. And why all the secrecy?  This is insanity. Why would laws and regulations need to be hidden until they are passed unless there is something that will be unpopular in them?
Why is dark net/deep net inherently unlawful? 
I doubt the rules prevent them from capping your usage to a certain number of bytes per month. But it shouldn't be any of their business what you're using those bytes for.
TV is not a telecommunications service. The FCC doesn't censor your phone.
well aren't you irrelevant now, you dumb little gaylords? 
&gt;  lawful sites  Thanks for fucking up the internet.
The politicians that voted against net neutrality is clearly not acting  on the behave of the people.   What can be done to get em out of US politics? - Or is the US to far gone, that being in the pockets of the companies is the norm now?
&gt; We asked for a simple rule for ISPs, no paid prioritization.  It sounds simple to say out loud, but it's not simple to define rigorously in ways that aren't filled with loopholes, subject to interpretation or vulnerable to challenge.
When I sign up for comcast they offer me faster internet for more money. Will this practiced be stopped? Probably not, but how is this different than the fast lanes this ruling is preventing?
Wow, you must know alot about IP INTERNET AND STUFF! 
Doesn't Juneau also have ACS?   http://broadbandnow.com/Alaska/Juneau?zip=99801
[deleted]
laissez faire
You mean the two biggest cell phone service providers with the most capital were the highest bidders on a service that directly effects their bandwidth capacity is somehow some shady back room deal? I mean we could argue that they should have sold it as equally as possible, but they did what most government agencies do. Buy work from the cheapest bidder and sale to highest bidder. It's how most things work in society.
There's a significant difference between amendments and a few rules written by an independent federal agency; being that one regulates the government and the other regulates people and corporations.
you can accept mail no problem, and sending mail just forward to your ISP's smtp for delivery.  They should allow any mail originating from your IP through their system.
Which politicians are you talking about? Who elected them?
Stop treading on my beliefs!
Yeah, my bad. 
I see what you did there.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Hey now, let's not cloud the issue with details, we've already muddled it up with all this fear!
Agreed just down voted post but up voted top comment.
Let's start with citizens United. The biggest injustice of words I have ever known.
&gt;Well, the Internet isn't exactly classified as a public utility now. Broadband access services are now classified under Title II of the Communications Act, which some people assume means utility because that's how landline telephone service regulated. But it's the same for cell phone voice service, and we don't really think of those as utilities at all, right?   Doesn't matter what we think of them as...they are utilities. How do I know? Look at your bill. Look at the number of extra taxes and fees on there that go to various government-required programs...just like your power and heating bills. Prepare for a lot more of that shit on your future ISP bills. More taxes, for more cronies, for more pork. Like all utilities these days.
He's a pretty neat guy to be honest with you. Even I'm sort of curious as to his current location.
[deleted]
Yeah, and while its unlimited data, 90% of the city can't get their high speed service. It can be summed up as 5mb down with unlimited. 
Treason of an oppressive motherland
I appreciate that. However, that is not what is at issue here.   The question is how are these regulations going to restrict the governments ability to restrict content in the future?  It doesn't, it actually gives them access to restriction by reclassifying the internet as a public utility. The fact that it is no longer legally qualified as private property changes it's legal status. Once that Rubicon is crossed then every and any special interest group can start to effect what they deem to be objectionable material through the FCC.   It might not be censored outright because of the First Amendment but there is a very good possibility that everything but the most generic of content is put into pay sites. Even a site like Reddit could come under pressure to moderate speech or take it private.  
It's interesting to see them turning up with new buzzwords like "1930's monopoly-era regulations" and insisting that new taxes are on the way *(even though there's no way that any new tax could match the price hikes that would undoubtedly come after legislation in favor of the corporations.)* It's definitely a good reminder that these are the politicians and spin teams that rapidly turned "Obamacare" into a four-letter word.
heh
So we won! Congratulations folks, great job.   What's the next issue your various groups plan to tackle?
Roads.
Do you have a source for the actual regulations that were passed?
US regulations are for the USA not Canada.
What about it?
Not saying what have done isn't great but if a government organisation in America is able to rule how the Internet is run then isn't the Internet a less "free" as in freedom place now? 
Hell, I'd take that over my current 6mbps with a 40GB cap. I go over almost every month lately. GCI only plays nice in areas where there's a second option. If jump to ACS in a heartbeat if it were here. That's what saddens me about the FRC leaving out the last mile unbundling provisions from Title II. There's really not a lot in there to dissuade monopolies from taking advantage of consumers. 
Democrats supported the war in Iraq, too. Anyone who honestly blindly believes any political party is naive. 
&gt;Regulation in the sense of quality (no lead paint) obviously make costs go up.  It just generally makes costs go up thus: Regulation creates barrier to entry in an industry. This eliminates competition for those who cannot meet government's arbitrary demands. This leaves only the rich and super rich in said industry, to participate. And when there is no compeition, price gouging happens. This happens everytime the government attempts to "regulate" and industry. The US citizen pays almost double for a pound of sugar than everywhere else. Why? Because Reagan had to regulate the sugar industry, creating tarriffs that limited how much sugar could be imported. This leaves only US sugar growers in the market, and since they're the only game in town, they can charge whatever they want.  &gt;and ideally brings more competition.  Monopolies do not create competition.  &gt;(although i bet you could find something if you looked hard enough, especially in a brand new industry)  When I see unregulated industries in their fetal stages, like aviation or technology (like home computers) I see mass innovation  &gt;http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Jungle Shouldn't exist, period.  That's good, because it didn't exist. It was a work of complete fiction. 
Even without labor laws, I'm not stupid enough to stay at a job where abuses are happening.
No potato. Only rok. Such is life.
But there are only 99 of those.
Allegedly. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
What? The title?! That's not good enough. Jet liners should be warned about it!
Thanks for your efforts, though never forget,  as long as privacy is not guaranteed and is taken for 'security', none of your internet saving approaches is going to pay off.  It is probably hard to acknowledge for such hard working people, nevertheless be sure about it.  And so to stick to the rules, here is my question;  How would you figure a open internet to be possible without guaranteed privacy?
&gt;  but it's sleazy of these guys, who know the process well, to pretend that it doesn't always work this way.  Though isn't that how a certain side of the US Political system has been operating for years now?  See: The Debt Ceiling or almost anything Obama has done.
more like 11 hours
I didn't say monopolies create competition, i said regulation does (in that case, by breaking up said monopoly).  And like i said, not all regulations are good. There are arbitrary regulations (usually for some special interest with big lobbying pockets). That doesn't mean all regulations are arbitrary, or bad- that's faulty logic. That just means you should argue to eliminate the bad ones. I find it interesting that you trust corporations to do the right thing unpoliced, and yet don't like sugar tariffs (which were sponsored by the local sugar industry). By your earlier logic, we're all idiots for buying sugar still. Or maybe it isn't that easy to just boycott something.  I notice that all the specific examples i used, you didn't refer to. Do you think requiring no lead in paint is arbitrary/harmful? What about certain emission limits? It's pretty easy to find plenty of examples for both, but i'm not generalizing it to "all regulations".  Not having lead in paint isn't arbitrary. It's pretty well proven it's really damn bad for you. Yes, it creates a barrier to entry. Sometimes that's worth it. Having health standards for preparing food makes it harder- but you're also a lot less likely to be eating something shady/with salmonella or whatever.  In their fetal stages, sure. What happens after that? Someone gains market share (microsoft) and takes over the market. They've had to get slapped down more than once. People have an unhealthy assumption in the "free hand of the market"  And obviously, The jungle wasn't real, but there was plenty of stuff that it was based on, that did happen. It revolutionized the industry.
"the evil ISPs" can't do what they weren't doing yet, oh and incoming taxes and regulations on the internet
I have the same cap as you do. I live a house with 3 other roommates (college). On multiple occasions we have gone over. It's a nuisance to be limited to an average of 2GB a day for each person. 
Well ENRON tried to do it with their Enron Broadband Services
&gt;by breaking up said monopoly  Regulation never does that  &gt;It's pretty easy to find plenty of examples for both, but i'm not generalizing it to "all regulations".  Lead paint is a problem, but I don't think government deserves credit for it not existing anymore.  As for emissions, well, the government is one of the worst polluters on the planet.  Even those things aside, beneficial or not, a few good decisions or choices do not excuse the bullshit they do constantly.  &gt;Having health standards for preparing food makes it harder-  LOL. This is laughable. Have you ever worked in a food factory? I did. For a huge, multi-national, billion dollar corporation. I guarantee you have something in your house made by them.   "Food safety" regulation is feel-good bullcrap that is never followed  &gt;someone gains market share (microsoft) and takes over the market.  Did they actually, or is it like the Standard Oil thing, where it actually wasn't even close to a monpoly, and the government just wanted more money?  
[deleted]
No shit. I was wondering how they thought this would impact Canada. This will help sway a decision in Canada, I just want to know what I can expect. 
Can Netflix sue those ISPs that had rate limited its connections now, if they continue to do so?
[deleted]
Except, didn't Pete Rose bet for his own team? There's a difference between throwing a game, and having so much on the line for the game that you risk player injuries.
Long ago, they did shut down some radio stations that were legally permitted, but broadcasting anti-establishment messages.
Problem: instead of Comcast controlling speeds... it's the FCC...  Since when has the FCC ever been open? Or accepting of anyone's opinions? Or actually intelligent?
[deleted]
that's a pretty unsatisfying answer...because any ruling can have unintended consequences, it's therefore not the responsibility of those pushing the legislation to try to foresee and account for those unintended consequences?
Now that you have changed these laws in America, will your organizations try to help other countries that need the help like Australia? Did you know Australia is about to introduce to new laws that go against our freedom and privacy on the internet for the whole country with the metadata retention law and the new 3 strike law for copyright holders. 
[deleted]
Are you also afraid the FCC is going to shut down foxnews.com? I too have been listening to Rush Limbaugh and he's way way off base on this one
Holy Shit horrifically low? I live in aus at 300gb/month and its too much as i cannot use up all of it due to the slow internet speeds; which at 1mb/s is pretty damn fast and it doesnt bother me one bit. I cannot comprehend why there is so much complaining about data caps.
First number is number 3, there are 3 letters in 322   Half-life 3 confirmed.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Nipple gate comes mind
Yeah Alaska definitely needs more healthy competition. AT&amp;T have been moving in. Verizon too. So at least cell bills are going down a little. 
Holy shit, is that some sort of sick joke?  Even reading the description of their service reads like something from the late 90's.    "Peak Speeds up to 5 times faster than the typical dial-up access! Always on-line. No dialing up - no busy signals ever - and no need for that second phone line."  REVOLUTIONARY!  Wow man, I am so sorry.
So ISPs can't block bad content?
[deleted]
Where I live they only offer 6 as the highest speed. Usually fine for me however a RETIREMENT community nearby has recently been upgraded to fiber which they claim get 100.  I called and offered to pay any amount to have them connect me to this because it has to go by my home to get the community.   They said no, they won't roll out to regular residents for years.  However "good news is we offer 25 to a town next to yours and at some point in the future we can hook you up to that but not the fiber!"   So I asked when, I told them literally I will pay for the cable to be run to me they said they didn't know and they can't answer. " call back at the end of the year, you'll also get a letter when we can" 
It's a lot bigger percentage of the subset of Americans who know enough to care.
Pete Rose never threw a game you jackass. 
Does the Net Neutrality ruling by the FCC have any affect on Obama's proposed hacking legislation in the future? 
What's "FUCK YEAH" in your respective languages?
Net Neutrality as it was passed will destroy Reddit. Save my comment and in 12 months you'll see. 
Answered elsewhere. Because of the way the rules are written, each release would trigger a public commentary period. It would then get caught in a loop and never get passed. It's higher up if you care to look for a more complete answer. 
So it is a blackout. 
You haven't read the bill. 
So obviously not important pages at all. 
it def is a finite resource though. How is it not?
&gt; "Net Neutrality is no more regulation of the Internet than the First Amendment is regulation speech."  Which is incorrect. The 1st amendment is meant to restrict the **government** from infringing on citizen's free speech. The Bill of Rights is not about regulating or government-granting free speech to people. 
checkmate.
Wow you really fall for this garbage? I always like to think that Americans are smart enough to see the real story and then I read things like what you wrote and realize most are brain dead sheep programmed by mass media to nod and move along
Hope and Change on the cover, but when you read the fine print it becomes Rope and Chains.
This has given the FCC, an illegal group to begin with, complete power to do what ever they want now. They can give the president full control over your internet for national threat reasons if they had their goon policy makers conjure that up for approval.  The fucking retards on this website will use government tyranny for things they want (which we don't even know if these hundreds of pages of rules are good) and completely ignore the fact that an un-elected body like the FCC even exists in the way it does. That big government can involve itself in all aspect of life. That it can collude with big corporations and their be no consequences. Think TWC or any others won't be getting subsidies for following new rules or even waiver? Think again. That private banksters can control the money supply and worth of the dollar in your pocket behind close doors.  This website is full of idiots, and people ignoring the underlying principle of the issue of even having the FCC have this unlimited power, is just plain insanity.
[deleted]
In what way have radio and tv personalities been censored?
&gt;Or is the US to far gone, that being in the pockets of the companies is the norm now?  Welcome to about 40 years ago. Seriously, you are that out of step with the current state of politics in America.
...and yet we haven't seen these rules after they were passed.  Why the secrecy?
People on Reddit seem to suddenly be incredibly dense about this issue. I understand a healthy mistrust for authority, but these people take it way too far. I doubt a majority of them even know how the legal process works here in America.  Who needs to do research when I can just yell my opinion louder than my opponent!
How do you know if you haven't SEEN the rules yet?
I do know what I am talking about, IPv6 gives away location by the number grouping. Just by the numbering you can tell where it came from which is not spoof able. You are never really sure with IPv4 , you can bounce around and not really be positively identified. Here is some proof if you don't believe me. http://www.apnic.net/publications/research-and-insights/stats/ipv6-geographic
You are forgetting that there are large interests on both sides of this debate. Google and other Web companies have campaigned for net neutrality. If they didn't support the action then I don't think net neutrality would have made it. 
I know because I'm running web and FTP daemons on my router pointed outwards, on standard ports, and have been for the past five years.
322 Potato? Eat for life! Be potato king. 
Commenting here to see if there are decent follow-up answers. I'm curious about this as well. I should mention that the only detractors from net-neutrality that I've seen/spoken with are hardline right wing types. Just wanted to throw out there that this type of demagoguery seems to me so far to be isolated to a political ideal.
Or how much more I'll spend?
It.....it isn't?  Bandwidth still requires energy to work, which generally I believe is in the form of electricity.... And more and more data is being transfered each day all over the world.  As much as I am against being throttled, the amount of energy to produce the bandwidth the world is demanding each day is not magically created out of thin air.
As a professional IT administrator, there are actually good reasons why residential customers are blocked from hosting their own servers.  For instance e-mail.  If a residential customer fails to setup their e-mail server correctly, then that e-mail server will be compromised and used to forward spam.  Because the residential customer's IP changes frequently (aka dynamic IP), the next customer who gets that IP might have problems with e-mail due to the IP being blacklisted because the previous owner of the IP didn't set up their server correctly.  If a person wants to run their own servers, they are better off with a VPS or going through a cloud service.  I get that there are professionals who can setup servers correctly, but those customers usually go with an enterprise connection or stick with a VPS.
Also true, not until we see some documents. All we can do is hope at this point and if it turns out to be shit, lobby the hell out of Congress to overturn it, which won't be difficult considering..
&gt; [With ISPs classified as information services] These decisions removed the FCCs ability to prohibit ISPs from blocking or discriminating against online content (it also removed the FCCs ability to ensure that ISPs protect your privacy).  Does this mean that the Title 2 reclassification will force ISPs to protect privacy? How will that affect something like AT&amp;T's new service where you are charged an additional fee to not have them share your browsing data with third parties (presumably for targeted marketing)?
Thousands of spam originators love your comment.
If getting the change to happen through Congress shouldn't be too difficult, why didn't we do that first?
That's luft ballons.
*numbers.
Sorta.  The problem is that a lot of people who think they know what they are doing when setting up a server, don't.  When grandma's financial documents are compromised because her grandson Timmy setup an FTP server on her PC (so she can get to her cat pictures from his house), she's not going to blame her sweet grandson - she's going to blame the evil ISP for allowing "hackers" into her PC.  Some poor Tier 1 tech is going to spend a lot of time trying to calm Grandma down, wasting time/money.  **Edit:**  [Yea](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2xdsdw/the_internet_is_safe_we_are_a_group_of_a_few_net/cozwjmg)
The DMV is funded and administered by your state government, not federal. Otherwise, I agree with your sentiment.
No you don't. With IPv4 they can see what company owns the IP, and just ask what customer it is. You can hide with a VPN. With IPv6 it won't be so extremely accurate that they won't need to ask. And you can still hide with a VPN. Literally nothing has changed. They know exactly who you are with IPv4 and they know exactly who you are with IPv6. You can hide both 100% through a VPN, assuming they won't give up your original one to them. 
That doesn't tell me shit.  HAVE YOU SEEN THE RULES AND DO THEY CHANGE HOW YOU CAN OPERATE?  No?  Then you shouldn't be celebrating just yet.
The Internet itself is not being classified as a utility, only relevant sections of Title II are being applied to ISPs. Also, the Court has ruled in favor of freedom of speech every single time the issue has come up of censoring content on the web. As for more taxes, we'll have to wait and see. However, assumptions are not something that should hold back progress like ISPs currently wish to do here in America. The fear of the unknown is always present, but we already know what the ISPs want, and it's most certainly scarier than the unknown.
So reddit's gone in thirteen months? Ok.
So now that control over the internet has been handed to a monolithic and unaccountable bureaucracy, how quickly, do you think, were going to be living under SOPA? 
With VPN, you are implicated and the server identifies you completely and records exactly where you came from. Your origin is always definite. With IPv4 I can spoof the ip from the start.
You are not getting it.  This does not give the FCC rights to control the Internet. Only to control ISPs against customers. This is not between you and the FCC. What power the Gov gained is not in any way related directly to you. Yes, they technically have more power, but that's like saying I bought a weapon when I buy a car. Technically a weapon but it's not a very practical one if you trying to kill someone. 
Do you guys get to write off your brown shirt purchases?
How can anybody be sure that's all it does without  reading it?  Nearly every bill has other bullshit they want to pass but know it would gain no support.
Reddit as it is now yes. 
I'm sorry, but $100/month for 150mbps is fucking horrible. The fact that monopolies have people believing that these are blazing fast speeds when Google's fiber network (1gbps up/down) is only $70/month (and they have to charge more because they have less of a national reach) with no installation fee is embarrassing.
I know but thanks anyway. I was just messing around because I was bored. Lol, seems like I've made a few people cry.
&gt; They can give the president full control over your internet for national threat reasons if they had their goon policy makers conjure that up for approval.  Sorry, I'm not following the jump here, care to explain?  
characters or digits.*
[deleted]
[deleted]
Well that's reassuring.  Thank god there is a process in place to lock out public commentary.
You'll hamstring yourself so hurt Comcast?   Comcast will get a waiver
No. You can't just spoof your external IP without your ISP knowing about it.   Not every VPN is local. You simply use one in a non allied country to wherever you live and your own government will never see the records. 
I'm still wondering since this went through, all fine and dandy, and we have seriously corrupt officials... how can we be sure it's a good thing?  You sure they didn't tack on some bs like they ALWAYS do?  If something is too good to be true... guess what?  I would seriously pay attention down the road as something may come up to cause them to back track this in the name of "security".
A few stupid questions but here goes:  Has anyone (outside of the five people that voted on it) actually read the 330 page decree?  Has it been published?  Where might I find it so that I can read it for myself?  If it HASN'T been published, why are people so wildly elated about it?  How do you know everything that's in it if it hasn't been published?  
It's FUD and stupid people fall for it
[deleted]
kill me
Breitbart, Infowars, AboveTopSecret, some serious research
Yeah right, you are starting to make shit up now...
not sure if you can answer that, but: do you think google and apple are companies that the common human consumer can trust?
When he wrote that reply, the original comment was pretty buried and the "saviors of teh internwebz" hadn't answered.
3 kills 2 assists 2 deaths? Editie: derp
No they didn't.
Man, I just painted that ceiling!
Remind me! 400 days
[deleted]
Because the non-network engineers of reddit think equipment and fibre in the ground are free, and that the ISPs just refuse to flick a switch somewhere. It's possible that the ISPs do refuse to invest in upgrades in cases (Verizon is doing a wonderful job of ignoring wireline because wireless is more profitable, totally shortsighted as it may be), but it certainly isn't quite as easy/free/cheap as people want to think  Usually with the addition of some flawed "analysis" that can be summed up as "it costs 0.0000000000000001c per exabit in a datacentre so it should cost the same for my home" which fails to account for the costs of running a large last mile network
It makes more sense on cable networks, because server usage usually implies large upstream usage, and cable networks don't have a whole lot of upstream capacity available (it's designed to get data from ISP to customer, not the other way around). If people tried to run their own datacentres in their basement off of consumer cable internet, that could screw things up for people in the local area  On DSL and to some extent on FTTH it's not a problem.  (and even the blessed Google originally banned servers on their network, it took a lot of public pressure to get them to bend on that - and even then they don't provide static IPs as I understand it, which makes it more of a PITA)
"Yes, that means that nobody outside a tiny number of people at the FCC has read the final version. And yes, it's crazy the law is written this way. "  This is so scary. OP is so happy because he THINKS he got what he wanted, without regard for precedent or even knowing what was actually written.  
&gt; They charge for a month of service at X Mbps and advertise it that way, but then stipulate that you can actually only use your service for a few days at the advertised speed  Except that isn't what data caps do, unless you make the incorrect assumption that most people max out their connections 24/7
All of the time and money sunk into this issue, and nobody stopped for 5 minutes to think that if these companies can't charge a premium for not throttling your content, then they will just raise their flat fees or claim infrastructure or equipment surcharges. Almost immediately, Google Fiber announced that they are raising their rates on the fiber TV.  People can claim all day that this has nothing to do with net neutrality since its TV service, but if you think about who's signing up for Google Fiber TV service, their internet customers, then it becomes clear who's paying for this.
Not OP, but living in an "other country", its not as important. Competition works very well to keep prices reasonable and service quality high, with no unreasonable behaviour by the ISPs. We don't need net neutrality legislation.  The US's lack of competition has got things to where they are, but this is not the same elsewhere.
I see that each of these organizations receive their money from George Soros.    My questions are, is he really as nice as he in person as he seems on TV?    When he signs your paycheck, does he tell you EXACTLY what to say or does he have more of a hands off managerial approach whereas he might give you a "core message" and then you just make the propaganda your own?  
[deleted]
It's also worth pointing out that Cogent was practicing their own deprioritisation of traffic from companies like Netflix.   http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/11/during-netflix-money-fight-cogents-other-big-customers-suffered-too/  As ever, there are two sides to the story
Good, don't trust it, but that's no reason to go looking for bad. That's not skepticism, that's dogmatism.
No, they didn't vote on a draft, they voted on the final rules.  And it is supposed to be made public because we are not supposed to be subjects, but citizens.
&gt;  Its just makes me sad for the state of tech in Canada.  Canada is often like a banana republic with snowplows*, which is unsurprising that it is a colony whose sole purpose is to enrich a few families.   \* ^(John Knieling)
&gt;I cannot comprehend why there is so much complaining about data caps.  Because your cap is 300GB, which is many times what it is for some people.  Where I live, the highest cap Comcast offers at the highest tier is 50GB.  Also, some people live in households with several people and many devices, and data doesn't go as far for them.
Oh my fucking god, YES! thank you! Moar this please, cure all depression.
No. Literally no one blames the ISP for getting "hacked".
Are you trolling or are you just retarded? How is asking a VPN where you are any different from asking an ISP anyways?   Also please find me one single solitary link about changing your external IP without your ISP being aware.   Find me one piece of supporting evidence that IPv6 will have any privacy implications whatsoever as far as the government is concerned. 
Blindly believing the ruling won't have issues is just as dogmatic.
It's regulated like a utility now.  Can't remember the last time my electricity was throttled. 
I'm not "blindly believing" anything. I am remaining skeptical and waiting for new information until change actually occurs.
&gt; Money is speech according to SCOTUS  No, it's not.  You have completely misinterpreted that ruling.  The ruling said that money is a part of free speech, because it costs money to get one's message out.  Therefore, by limiting money, you limit someone's ability to get their message out.   It did not say "money = speech." 
Very insightful.  You've given me a lot to think about.
There is a lot of misinformation about this kind of stuff floating around, but the main argument is that these companies were given massive sums of money to roll out said last mile networks  and then used that money to lobby against their competitors instead.   The comment about bandwidth being an infinite resource is silly, but so is talking about the costs of the last mile networks after taxpayers have paid for them several times over.
get rid of the regulations that prevent start up companies from competing with the big networks
[deleted]
I think theres a lot more psychology behind this than we as a society care to attend to. We assume that most people who go to detention do so for a reason, otherwise why would they be there? Address the lacking encouragement of critical thought in the public education system and we're more likely to see problems like unlawful detention to be questioned.  Check out reading some typology/personality psychology research, (it's pretty closely associated with pop culture now, so I think it's safe to say to take it with a grain of salt) you can easily relate the majority of people in the world, their personality types and their non-existent desire to do anything other than their tasks at hand. It makes poor education a lot easier to shovel in our mouths when the majority of people don't care to think beyond what they're told.  Something tells me in the future that prisons are going to be enslavement camps for the mentally ill and anyone without a lick of smarts. It's class warfare now, but these dichotomies always evolve from something irrational like wealth distribution(similar to a caste system) to something more fair, but equally discriminatory. That discrimination being on people's mental capacity.  Holy rant batman... Sorry for the novel and tangent. You may already know all of this, if that's the case, pardon meeeee.
Bandwidth is a finite resource. Someone has to buy it 
I believe that, at best (and there is indeed a lot of misinformation), this only generally applied to telcos like Verizon, and not the cable companies that people like to criticise today.  And even if tax breaks were given, that doesn't mean that the ISPs have a never ending obligation to run a totally uncongested network (no consumer ISP, even outside the US, tries to do this - it's too expensive)
Having earned my strips pulling Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 2/3; I promise you that ISP's being blamed for customer's stupidity is fairly common.  Might I introduce you to /r/talesfromtechsupport?  And was a downvote necessary? (specific to /u/lol_gog). 
I think what he is saying is that you could still use the legalese that such site's title banner, page color, any advertising, ANYTHING legal could be claimed as non-censorable valuable legal content.  There is no such thing as a website with 100% illegal content.
I'm not very clever.  Could you ELi5 this for me?  Could anyone?
[deleted]
Surely you live in the Sahara desert?
Not sure why I'm getting the hostility.  At this point in time, I have to ask for for your evidence that "not a single person" has ever blamed their ISP for getting hacked when it was their own fault.  Especially as there are plenty of personal experiences that says otherwise:  &gt; **Literally** no one blames the ISP for getting "hacked".  I've earned more Certs than you'll ever be able to pronounce, yet for some reason you feel like an expert.  I love that the FCC ruled ISPs as a class II provider.  But there are legitimate reasons why some policies that ISPs instigate (for instance no residential servers) make sense from a larger perspective.  I get that your panties are in a twist about "fast lanes", so are mine, but don't think that every single thing they do is bad.  Grow up.
No no.  Your argument makes sense.  It's the same logic behind parents blaming kids for screwing up the computer for installing a program clearly unrelated.  Many people still treat computers like they're some sort of box full of magic. 
Here's the simple, true answer: Naive idiots, blinded by partisanship and a misguided loathing for "evil corporations," have just given the federal government - an entity far more capable of fucking us over than Comcast - free reign to do whatever they want to what was until this week the greatest tool for freedom of expression in the world.
We have to pass the bill, so you can find out what is in it.
Here you go , it states that the present implementation is not securely track able , but future use can enforce this. http://www.internetsociety.org/deploy360/blog/2014/12/ipv6-privacy-addresses-provide-protection-against-surveillance-and-tracking/
So we had an open internet already....now we have the fucking government involved and we are supposed to be happy??? This will bite our ass in the long run. 
WHY DOESN'T THE CUP HOLDER ACTUALLY HOLD A CUP!!!   I'm suing Gateway!
Plenty of people were angry about the health-care law and still are angry. If I've learned anything it is that the government doesn't care about angry citizens. 
I rarely up our down vote anything unless it's very incorrect. I'm a network engineer and I've worked my way up from from tier 1 support. Just anecdotal I guess, but few people even know what an ISP does. Most people, in my experience, blame McAfee or Norton for letting their computer "Get hacked". Even when the internet goes out people usually try to tell me they have a virus instead of blaming the provider.
Same here- unless we use satellite we have to use Comcast. 
You do realize that "big content" as you describe it still has to pay their bills, right? This doesn't suddenly mean that Netflix's connection is free. They still pay out the ass. Remember that the companies that are getting paid for these huge pipes can use that money to expand capacity.  As for peering agreements, they're not changing. A while ago Level 3 wrote at length about how there are a number of unused ports representing a huge amount of capacity between them and Verizon in a particular data center. The cost to fill that capacity is negligible and yet the ports that were connected were always choking from the traffic. It was mostly to fuck with Netflix traffic.   ISPs make money by getting users access to cool things (this is why ISPs that aren't real cable companies love to ignore DMCA requests.) If some ISPs want to artificially slow down their peering to mess with content companies, that's on them entirely. Peering is already a mess.   http://blog.level3.com/open-internet/verizons-accidental-mea-culpa/
&gt;Not sure why I'm getting the hostility.  At this point in time, I have to ask for for your evidence that "not a single person" has ever blamed their ISP for getting hacked when it was their own fault.  Especially as there are plenty of personal experiences that says otherwise:  &gt;&gt; **Literally** no one blames the ISP for getting "hacked".  Clearly I'm exaggerating.   &gt;I've earned more Certs than you'll ever be able to pronounce, yet for some reason you feel like an expert.  Lol. I'm a network engineer so feel free to quote your certs. I don't care.  &gt;I love that the FCC ruled ISPs as a class II provider.  But there are legitimate reasons why some policies that ISPs instigate (for instance no residential servers) make sense from a larger perspective.  I don't disagree. I was just pointing out that your example is ridiculous.  &gt;I get that your panties are in a twist about "fast lanes", so are mine, but don't think that every single thing they do is bad.  You're putting words in my mouth.   &gt;Grow up.  You're the one that got upset over a handful of words.  
I'm going to call bullshit.  If you've seen the things [I've seen](https://www.reddit.com/r/talesfromtechsupport/), you'd never even think about saying:  &gt; Literally no one blames the ISP for getting "hacked".  Either you spent your entire career answer only T2 networking calls, or you are full of shit.
This is pretty misleading and, at its core, wrong. There is no direct correlation between IP address and physical location. Generally, the best you can do with an IP address alone is get the region based on reverse DNS or by tracerouting and looking at the last few hops.  Granted, an engineer/technician at you ISP will be able to match a given IP address with your account and, if they keep thorough logs, possibly match *previously* used IPs with your account, but this information really needs to be subpoena'd to make it useful.  Outside of the law, I suppose the ISP's information could be hacked, but usually any further "tracing" is by use of doxxing techniques.  It's not like you can derive someone's street address simply by knowing what their IP address is. 
[deleted]
Is it safe? Something is wrong in the state of the Network. Once again, we are most likely in the process of being "played".
&gt; Lol. I'm a network engineer so feel free to quote your certs. I don't care.  You are not an network engineer.  There's not a CCNP that I know of who doesn't capitalize the N and E.  A true NE knows they are, and make sure others do to.
Okay. Whatever makes you feel better.
[deleted]
Does it limit the government'a ability?
You don't have a single post in /r/networking, /r/sysadmin, or /r/netsec.  Let me guess you "don't like to talk business when you are not at work"?  Right now, I'm assuming you're the grandson who's done fucked up his grandmother's shit that an actual IT professional had to waste their time fixing.
I guess that answer is just as good as any. 
Could you be any more of a passive fucktard?  You got called out, now show up.  
So... Basically, I'm right, but one day I might possibly won't be? Maybe? Therefore you're right?   That article goes into detail about why you're wrong. 
I don't really have anything to prove. Your post history shows you're just an ass hole so I don't really feel the need to entertain you. 
Signed numerous petitions for neutrality , never fully grasped it. Could you explain like you are talking to a 5 yo?
[deleted]
[deleted]
The author does go into detail why I am currently wrong, but someday when IPv6 is completely implemented and IPv4 is removed, there will be complete surveillance . Big brother will be in full force. You won't be able to take a crap without the gov't knowing. The end game shows there will be no privacy, we are screwed. 
I'm really conflicted on this ruling, mostly because I don't trust either side of the argument.  So we stopped ISPs from discriminating packets, that's great but what's to stop the government from taxing it or adding additional regulations as a public utility?  I would like to hear from an ardent supporter of net neutrality, what's the worse case scenario here regarding the new regulation?
&gt; The government's job is to fight for people.   Wrong, not in the US constitution at least.
&gt; I don't really have anything to prove  You do though.  You claimed that "literally" not a single person has ever blamed their ISP for stupid shit they've done.  I gave you an entire forum of antidotes proving you're wrong.  You responded with an answer that no one who has actually worked IT would give.  All you have is an ad hominem argument based on a few controversial comments on subjects that aren't even remotely related to your claim of being a Network Engineer.
Could you please explain how the new rules would prevent companies from gouging the public in the same manner as mobile data providers have since they got telecom status?
Excellent post!
Usually anything government run is terrible, why is letting the government run the internet good?
How can you say they don't have the authority to censor when it's written clearly that these new rules are for "lawful content and lawful network traffic".  What is considered lawful on the internet?  There are no clear delineations on that and now, should this go all the way, the gov't will be in charge of determining what is lawful and what is not.   
[deleted]
I agree. :(
But they already know who you are using your IP. Your IP is attached to your ISP and they can just say "hey who owns this/owned this at this time?" They can do the same with IPv6.  VPNs can hide your activity from your ISP. All this means is instead of asking your ISP for your name, they ask the VPN. However, you aren't regionally limited with your VPN choices. Therefore you can hide by using a VPN in a country that won't cooperate with local law enforcement.   VPNs will function exactly the same with IPv6.
[deleted]
Because it is increasingly viewed as public infrastructure similarly to toll roads, which are also regulated by traffic rules even though privately owned.
[deleted]
Keep in mind that this AMA closed at 4pmEST on Friday. We made a clear edit when we all officially were no longer on Reddit to answer questions. So unfortunately we were not able to answer every single question and tried our best to answer the questions in the order they arrived.   Luckily, since we still spend our Friday nights chatting about Internet policy, some of the advocates who were on here earlier wanted to pass a few messages along.   From Matt Wood at Free Press,  This is how the process works at the FCC.  That doesn't mean it is perfect, but it is a public process.  They proposed rules in May.  They took millions of comments.  They changed the proposal in good ways to respond to that massive public input.  They provided a summary explaining the changes in the rules.  The final rules will be about twice as long as that summary was.  (That was 4 pages, and the rule text is about 8 pages we hear.)  What's not done at this point are the opinions (including the dissents) around the rules, which provide historical background and details and guidance, but are not "the rules."  These opinions are akin to court opinions, which also are not published until they're final.  This is how federal agencies work.  If people want to conclude that agencies can never do any good -- no matter what the substance of the rules may be -- there's not much we can do to convince them.   It's not a perfect process, but it's a public one.  Not perfectly transparent of course, but more transparent than Congress in some ways, less so in others.   Oh -- and people should know that once the rules are final, there is opportunity to seek reconsideration from the agency and of course also to take them to court.  So it's not like these rules are immune to scrutiny and challenge even once they are finalized.    It's a legitimate question, and we should all work together to improve transparency everywhere in government. But I think the motivations of some people complaining the loudest about this are decidedly disingenuous.  I would bet a lot of money that Ajit Pai would have been unconcerned by transparency had he won, for example.  Let's say the FCC approves the Comcast merger with Time Warner Cable or the AT&amp;T buyout of DIRECTV.  Will Pai demand that decision be made public before it is made final?  So let's separate out the legitimate concern that most of us share about imperfect processes in government from the illegitimate motives of some people mouthing these concerns.  They are not progressives or civil libertarians or allies.  They are the mercenaries and tools of monopolies who'll do anything they can to derail rules that benefit the Internet instead of benefitting cable profits.   From Corynne McSherry at EFF on transparency,   Transparency is a real concern, and frankly it would be good all around if all of the processes of government were more open  including our legislative processes.  Our support is based on what we know so far, and one thing we know for certain is that any meaningful NN rules have to start with reclassification.  What we also know is that the FCC has committed to several clear rules that will protect fair Internet access, like bans on throttling, and that it did so based on overwhelming public input. Of course we will vet the final rules carefully, we will share any concerns we have, and we will call the FCC out if it abuses its authority.  But for now, we see a lot to support, beginning with reclassification.   And from me, Meredith at Public Knowledge,   With that, we were happy to see this appear on the front page on Friday night, and will try to look back at this thread, but the AMA did end at 4pm, and even though important questions like this one came in after that, we unfortunately weren't all here to see them. Thanks.
Derp
&gt;    Sort of Pertinent: **[David Turetsky](http://www.akingump.com/en/lawyers-advisors/david-s-turetsky.html)**, former FCC Public Safety Bureau Chief and owner of a quite unfortunate haircut in his current position at Akin Gump (a pretty well-known telecom firm in DC) says the 2010 net neutrality rules gave carriers "broad discretion" to manage their own cybersecurity (e.g. DDoS and "other sorts of destructive activity") as part of the reasonable network management thing.  He was quoted in trade press this week saying he's pretty sure that will carry over into the new rules.  Not sure if that will apply to things that aren't "destructive" per se, so will keep digging.
I have read so many different items on this issue, but it seems like the Chair has sole authority to withhold the release of the document.  However, I guess my biggest worry is that the FCC is going to continue with its history of censuring (Eminem, Howard Stern, South Park, etc) and this lack of a release to me is a huge red flag.
Does the FCC censor content from your phone calls?
What /u/Utipod said, plus the fact that my data is coming at me 50 times faster than yours is. There are PC games that are larger than 50GB that I can download in an hour or so, obviously you can see where my data can go. I'm going to hope you got your numbers mixed up, and just aren't making sense of what I'm saying.
How concerned should freedom-loving citizens we be that Free Press was founded by an avowed Marxist? How does allowing bureaucrats to pick the internet winners and losers not equate to top-down central planning, generally leading to less freedom? I say this as someone in rural US that doesn't currently have access to reliable broadband. (a tradeoff I feel was worth it for me as I don't expect urban broadband users or taxpayers to subsidize broadband to my home)
It is different from situation to situation and therefore from country to country. But market failure is rampant, market failure is more than just creating monopolies (e.g. like smashing standard oil and trust busting, which you surely agree was a very good idea)but also fixing asymmetric information( e.g. in banking a lack of regulation caused the financial crisis -&gt; volatile business cycles hurt long term growth). The energy markets in Europe are a good example of how privatization lead to a decrease in efficiency (adjusted for inflation and taxes) for energy rose quite significantly in most countries where privatization was implemented. A good example is also the US healthcare system compared to European models where government regulation over insurance companies and mainly advertising to physicians is much stricter (-&gt; moral hazard market failure) and healthcare cost much lower.  When market failure is extensive government regulation is necessary to increase efficiency. Even if you don't believe that government does certain things more efficient (example most  infrastructure), government should still play and important role in the flattening of the business cycle since fiscal multiplicators vary greatly over time and the Fed can't to everything since monetary flexibility and fiscal flexibility can be very different. To add to that, guaranteeing economic efficiency should not be the only goal of government in my opinion.  
&gt;the same people  I know, you can't trust humans.  I say we turn it all over to the dolphins and hope for the best.
Literally every law we have works the same way. Just because it doesn't work in some cases doesn't mean much.
This event displays that the concept of "positive liberty" is alive and well. Liberty is gained trough forcing your will on others, so to speak... contrasted to liberty being defined as; areas not under the influence of government (generally). The notion of negative liberty. 
Yes, but the cost is negligible. I think that's what OP meant. In many other countries you can get unlimited for very low cost. How come it is possible there, and in North America you are capped to some random arbitrary low number?  On the same note, you can get a server with very large or even unlimited bandwidth for a very low price. So if data centers can do it, why much bigger ISPs cannot?
The comparison is not the same. The Affordable Care Act became public record when it was introduced. Any bill that is brought up to vote in Congressional committee or full session of Congress is published on the Library of Congress website. The people claiming they didn't know what was in it had multiple opportunities to read it and chose not to and now use it as an excuse.
Their advertising in the first paragraph reads like most dsl providers from 1995...  "Peak Speeds up to 5 times faster than the typical dial-up access! Always on-line. No dialing up - no busy signals ever - and no need for that second phone line. Web sites appear many times faster than with dial-up access, and crystal clear audio flows without interruption or interference. Service includes 5 MB personal web hosting space."  Genuinely feel for your bro...  EDIT:Don't forget to use that 5MB personal web hosting space, that's a pretty good perk in this day and age....
You can still go to court and if they proceeding if found not ''just and reasonable'' they will be stopped from overreaching. There are laws to prevent executive overreach.
I'm not entirely sure how they get their upstream, but I'm getting the hint they aren't connected via fibre or something.  Or bandwidth is still very difficult to get into that area.  So it might unfortunately for OP, be the best they can get for a while.  
Could you image where we'd be if we had to pay fast lane access to be able to share openly like that!  I mean... all those poor white and gold people... could have been spared
Where did the power and influence go that service providers lost? There is power associated with the new capability to provide massive amounts of data to anyone anywhere. The power to  moderate and modify that is huge. Power doesn't vanish its only moved.  In The Cat in The Hat Comes Back there's a pink cat ring they try to wipe out (return to the people), but that never happens. Eventually Little Cat Zee deals with it (invisible remediation happens). What happened here?
NOBODY knows what is in the BILL...It is still secret and the only ones who know are the government. So how is it this was a good thing? why couldn't we the people see what is being regulated? what are they hiding?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Thats great that you mentioned an other boondoggle of a case like that. Fact check me if you dare.   In the name of racism private companies required to let the government determine their hiring practices. This led to absence of aptidude testing prior to employment because it was deemed a form of discrimination. Instead corporate america made college degrees the standards for employment. (Who could discriminate based on inteligence legally). This signifficantly raised the bar on employment, requiring you to invest great sums of both time and money in an college accredidation of which the majority was unrelated to your field. Also poorer potential well qualified employees (generally minorities) stood a small chance of getting hired. But hey this is Reddit where the majoty oppinion is law and detractors are racists, right?
&gt; in North America you are capped to some random arbitrary low number?  That depends on the ISP. Mine caps us at 250GB but on the rare occasion that we exceed it, the only "punishment" is a letter in the mail noting that we exceeded the cap and recommending we upgrade to a higher tier of service. A friend of mine got a letter every month for an entire year (he had them pinned on his bulletin board) but never had his account throttled.
it is a finite resource, between clock speed, memory and bandwidth, bandwidth evolves by far the most slowest.  clockspeed on average doubles every 2 years (it used to go faster, but the industry has been lagging in recent years). RAM is also doubling every ~2 - 3 (not sure), but bandwith doubles every ~10 years.  The problem with bandwith is that the entire infrastructure needs to change to increase it, usualy.   In reality there is a limit to how much information you can put trough a cable, at a given time interval. and it is somewhat fair of ISP's to put a download cap on it. So everyone at least gets something.  The think the ISP are doing wrong in america is that they don't improve infrastructure, because they don't have to, because there is no competition.   That is the biggest issue, there is no competition, if you solve the competition problem, regulation is not necessary.
No they haven't. Don't worry. Its good for everyone because George Sorros says so 
They have indeed attempted to in the past.  [The legality of phone sex businesses was challenged by the Federal government in July 1988 with the passage of the Telephone Decency Act, which made it a crime to use a "telephone ... directly or by recording device" to make "any obscene or indecent communication for commercial purposes to any person," punishable by a $50,000 fine or six months in prison." At the time the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) was responsible for policing 900 numbers for obscenity and indecency.](http://business.avn.com/articles/video/The-Adult-Industry-Remembers-Gloria-Leonard-1940-2014-548396.html)  Edit: Actually here is what I was originally looking for. ["Section 223(b) prohibits the making, by mean of telephone, of any indecent communication for commercial purposes that is available to a person under 18.  Message providers have a defense if they (1) require payment by credit card before messages are transmitted or (2) require an authorized access code before messages are transmitted or (3) scramble the message so that it is comprehensible only to one using a descrambler."](http://66.210.33.157/mim/full_article.php?article_no=282)  
First of all, "BigContent" isn't transferring bandwidth costs to "BigTelco." Content providers have to pay ISPs for bandwidth just like everyone else does. There's no magic "free internet on-ramp" for content providers. Everyone who is serving up content on the internet, and everyone who is downloading content from the internet, are all already paying for their bandwidth.  Secondly, the op you replied to clearly stated in the last sentence of the first paragraph: "This is a standard that has decades of case law behind it, much of which designed to prevent FCC overreach." In other words, there ARE such prohibitions in place already.
Mhmm, Socialism and Communism and such.  Orwell himself was a socialist, but believed the governing systems as they were being developed and implemented were dangerous and flawed, and Animal Farm is his display of that.  The characters parallel historical figures such as Stalin and Trotsky (and a bit of Lenin referenced as well).
Are you actually suggesting that the new rules might prevent email providers from utilizing anti-spam blacklists? With the exception of Google Fiber, most major email providers don't operate as ISPs and shouldn't be subject to any of the rules in question.  Or are you operating under the logic that since we haven't seen the rules, we can't assume that the FCC isn't requiring all Internet providers to keep a giraffe available for customers to pet?
I'm pretty sure everyone was already aware of how that works. That doesn't change the fact that "Why isn't this higher?" is a stupid and useless comment that would best serve the Internet by being printed out, wadded up, and shoved up the ass of whomever wasted time typing it.         ^^^\(Cue ^^^people ^^^thinking ^^^they're ^^^clever ^^^by ^^^telling ^^^me ^^^this ^^^comment ^^^should ^^^be ^^^higher.)
No it does not restrict the government's ability to restrict the ISP's ability to restrict our internet. That's the point.
This is some scary shit.  The spin that has been put on it is comical.  I'm really disappointed in my fellow Redditors who are buying in to this, or who feel that this is a victory.  
Before moving to my current city, I lived in the middle of nowhere in north central Missouri. We couldn't even get 56K dialup. The fastest the modem would ever connect was 19.2K. The only other option was satellite, which was way too expensive. It was cheaper and easier to just drive 30 minutes to my friend's house and download on his broadband. 
There's a lot of "faith" flying around on otherwise athiest Reddit.   Also it takes a high level of maturity to look objectively at your life, society and its history this is always decried as "CONSPIRACIES!" By the rank and file crowd. Unfortunately more often then not reality is pretty sick and twisted.   Ofcource it Is more pleasant to accept asume the cheery: "Obama wrote us a letter!" Angle.
The early 1900s in America were known as the 'Gilded Age', when there was no regulation on business. Monopolies formed, most Americans were poor and exploited and living conditions were harsh and unsafe.
My colleague gave the most succinct description of why net neutrality is important:  "The ISPs charge their customers for access to the Internet. Now they want to charge the Internet for access to their customers."  Do you agree?
Cost to transmit over and maintain longer distance cables, higher tax subsidies, etc.
They don't necessarily block it completely, they just assign a fairly negative rating. If you have a few things with positive ratings (like a valid DKIM certificate or whatever), it might tip the balance and get through.
I meant that the situation of necessitated secrecy before voting isn't ideal. We don't know until we see it, but close enough is 90% of the battle, the 10% can still be changed.  To expect a law to be 100% foolproof in its first incarnation is foolish, and would lead to nothing ever getting done.
Another thing I've been telling people is that 'fast lanes' are an idea  born in the boardroom, not the server room. All network engineers or sysadmins in my circles (working at the ISPs) support network neutrality.  Did you find this to be the case in your experience also?
[deleted]
And Republicans are against it for the only reason to be against it. Lack of transparency in FCC process, so its not ok.  Seriously Reddit gets together to stump for this for what, a year? And then gets what it wants, but suddenly its a huge problem because the FCC process isn't transparent?   This is the process this was going to go through from the beginning. This is what reddit wanted. The rules will be publicly posted in short order. Yes the FCC process should be more transparent but that is a completely separate issue to debate.
I suspect /u/MistaHiggins didn't actually mean "bandwidth" as in "throughput" (technically not really bandwidth but that's how we all use the word these days), I suspect they actually meant data as in data caps.  throttling is about how fast you can get data through, and that's about bandwidth, which really is more limited.  Total cumulative date, though, is not limited at all except by speed.  They use data caps as a way of making sure you don't use the top available speed too often, not because the data itself is a limited resource.
Which ISP is that?  The letter I got from Comcast for exceeding 250GB in a month said that if I did it next month, they'd completely cut off my service, not just throttle it.
Well said!
Nope the point was to restrict the ISPs.  The government is the regulator.  So who is restricting the government now?
This administration and all of its successors will find ways to abuse their power against the one thing that was really a threat to them.    The best historical parallel to what you've done is the whittling away of support for the country dukes by the peasantry flocking to a kings banner under the medieval burgs.  We have now traded a small group of gatekeepers for a single gatekeeper.  All you've done is remove a roadblock from the ability of politicians to pick winners and losers on the internet. 
It's less scary than it sounds because there's always about a month after the vote before the new rules go into effect, so we can still comment on them if they turn out to be different from what was promised, and the FCC can still revise them.  It's not *that* different from the cycle of comments and new proposals that came before their vote.
That's a good soundbite for the pro-neutrality side, but it's also a strawman. You declare that money is speech, companies have more money than people, therefore companies have more speech than people. That's not even sound logic.
Huh?  Who argued that transparency is bad?  Could you quote something that shows it?
[deleted]
Right, of course it's finite. I initially upvoted that "bandwidth is infinite" comment for its elegant sarcasm. 
&gt; the FCC, an illegal group to begin with  When your comment starts right off with something that crazy-sounding, and you don't even try to back it up, don't expect anyone to pay you any attention.  If you're going to call an agency of the government, created by Congress, and whose existence has never been challenged by a court, "an illegal group", you're just declaring right off the bat "don't listen to me, I'm just saying crazy things".
Electricity is taxed and monitored for excessive usage to tip off illegal activities like growing marijuana. Is that what we want for the internet?
Haha 1000th upvote
[deleted]
You'll note that you're talking about an actual bill by Congress, not an FCC reg.  Also, that the prohibition was against commercialization of certain content to the underaged, not a blanket ban on certain content.  Further:  &gt;it is a safe bet that had these companies been given a choice in 1981 as to whether they wanted to carry dial-a-porn, every company in the United States would have responded with a resounding, NO!   The companies were forced to provide service to dial-a-porn providers by the FCC and state public service commissions.  So, without "oppressive government regulation", the censorship would have been much worse.
I'll give it a shot, but this will be somewhat long it might not be understandable by a 5 year old, but I'll try.  The FCC and the government isn't regulating the internet content providers (any web site that you can think of), they are regulating the internet service providers (Comcast, Verizon, AT&amp;T, etc). They are making sure that all legal internet content is treated equally and not subject to any interference from the service providers. Data is data no matter if it's a YouTube video or a CNN article.  Here's an analogy, right now we have "mail neutrality" from the United States Post Office. As long as it's legal mail, and you've paid the correct postage, the USPS will deliver that mail as fast and as efficiently possible. It doesn't check what's in the envelope and it doesn't matter if it's a birthday card for your Grandma, a check for your yearly subscription to Cat Fancy, or correspondence to your pen pal in Abu Dhabi. Now let's suppose that there was no such thing as mail neutrality and that the post office could get money from companies to put certain mail in a "fast lane" vs. a "slow lane." Let's say that American Greetings paid the USPS a boatload of money to make sure all their greeting cards were delivered in two days (the fast lane) while all other greeting cards were arbitrarily slowed down and delivered in a week (slow lane). If your Grandma's birthday is in a few days then you are pretty much forced to send her an American Greeting's card if you want it to get there on time. Even if you like the designs of a small, start up greeting card company you are out of luck because you know the USPS will hold up that card and deliver it in a week. Poor Grandma doesn't get her birthday card on time because the USPS is making money to slow that card down.  This is the same with net neutrality. Large companies like Netflix could pay the service providers, like Comcast, a bunch of money to make sure their videos are in the fast lane and they are always silky smooth, in HD, and they never buffer. A small video start up company would be in the slow lane because they don't have the money to pay up, all their videos constantly buffer, they are in SD, and sometimes they don't even play. All this does is artificially hurt your experience as a result of corporate profits and it goes against everything about the internet that we've come to love.  If you explain it in this context, I have no idea why anyone would be against this concept. This isn't a government overreach, it's exactly the type of regulation we need in a free market to make sure companies aren't profiting at the negative expense of the consumer. And there are absolutely no freedoms being taken away. You can still do whatever you want on the internet, and it'll all be provided to you as fast as possible by the service provider.
[deleted]
Cox. Incidentally, they recently doubled our speed and lowered the bill. 
Do you think the public, or their customers, should lobby an ISP that sues to withdraw their suit?
How are you and your compatriots planning on using this momentum moving forward to the seemingly daunting task of reclaiming the right to privacy/anonymity, query without fear of reprisal etc.? Accessibility is obviously a very big deal and I applaud your success in fighting the meta monster, but, I am curious as to where we go from here in a fight a that has only just begun vs a thoroughly dangerous/entrenched enemy... 
&gt; You still won't be able to really run a mail server off of a residential connection, since most major email providers (GMail, Hotmail, Yahoo, etc.) permanently blacklisted all residential ISP ranges years ago to block spam  Bullshit. They use a few different DNSBL providers, you can just remove yourself from them, e.g. https://www.spamhaus.org/pbl/removal/  There are services such as http://www.dnsbl.info/blacklist-removal.php which queries the different DNSBL providers.
Are you one of those people that has to have the last word. You might want to fix that, it's annoying... 
There are some privileged people who've seen it.
&gt;You'll note that you're talking about an actual bill by Congress, not an FCC reg. Also, that the prohibition was against commercialization of certain content to the underaged, not just certain content.  Right. Just like how all free-to-view porn, violence, drug, anti-government etc sites operate today. I don't know about you, but I don't feel like entering my credit card at every shady porn site when I want to beat off or view anything that isn't child friendly.  
It's already recorded. This has nothing to do with giving nsa more power.
Sorry to dissapoint you but I'm not surprised you assume my stance is partisan.  I hate both equally.  Fox news is as big of a joke as MSNBC. MSM allows nothing important thru the gauntlet of state thought control and sounds like you've been well fed I love my country and distrust the government, as is the duty of all citizens. Where do you get the hubris of defending them to the point where you dont even know the rules or repurcussions of this while assuming you know me?
Based on what?
You seem to be under the impression that content providers are "forcing data" onto ISPs networks. That's not how it works. The ISP has customers, they sell those customers x amount of bandwidth. Those customers then use that bandwidth to download content from content providers. If the ISP can't deliver the bandwidth that they are selling, then they need to stop selling that bandwidth to customers. They are already being paid by their customers for the bandwidth usage, there's no need for them to ALSO charge the content providers for that same bandwidth that they've already been paid for.
To be fair, I completely agree with what you mean, but these costs will never be as cheap in North America as  they are in, say, Latvia. The simplest reason is because engineers and technicians can expect significantly higher salaries and benefits, due to the increased standard of living and cultural "prestige" of working in the tech field. We also pay fair wages to materials providers and on-the-ground construction personnel.   Obviously, greedy management and stakeholder types take a large portion of the pie as well, and they should maybe be held in check. But I don't think anyone is arguing that the hard working engineers and technicians who make this technology possible should be paid less. 
Actually the switch to Title II was a suggestion from the Supreme Court the last time they struck down net neutrality.
&gt;  \_()_/  Irrelevant, but is there a particular app that always draws this image incorrectly? I always see it with the same mistake, so I assume it must be automated.
I deal with spamhaus removal requests every day at work.  There's not a chance in hell they'd delist a residential IP, especially when they're dynamic.  
Can we please save this AMA to reddit history boards and see what this looks like in 5-10 years? Would like to see how accurate your assessment is, since you are "experts". 
But it is infinite. It only isn't for them because they are giving more than they can reliably handle. 
It's infinite if you assume there is infinite money and infinite connectivity and equipment to buy with said money. In practice, there are financial and practical constraints that make it finite. Not rare, but not plentiful (especially in the last mile)  "Overselling" is done because it is the way to make high bandwidth residential internet access both cheap and fast. It isn't done purely for profits or for fun. The important bit is to try to ensure that there is just enough capacity to please most people most of the time
If I can handle giving 5 million people the best Internet without calling it's infinite to them. However. If I take another 5 million (knowing full well this will cause problems) then it's my full that people are being capped.    When you are offering a product you can't provide that should be infinite (we have the electric and the cable and definitely the money to do it) I see no reason to defend them.   I'd you're just being pedantic about the infinite and finite thing, then I don't really see what you're talking about. I don't see anyone who 100 percent says the Internet is this thing that doesn't cost money. 
How much more will I have to pay per year?   With public utilities comes fees and taxes....  Or did you guys not think about how this effects the common taxpayer?
The problem is under Title 2 the internet is classified as a common carrier open to the public without discrimination.   Tell me, how long do you think my BDSM group could hold activities on an American Airlines flight from NY to LA? Sorry, any judiciary in the country is going to insist that my group take a charter flight.  Same thing here. Nothing will be banned but speech will eventually be modified for general viewing or you take it private (pay).  I'm not a lawyer but thats my current thinking.
It blows my mind that  people actually think that heavy government regulation of the Internet will somehow protect an independent interne. Let me ask, how many corporations control radio broadcast, electricity, and water? How many of the local companies are actually shell companies of larger corporate powers? The answer is all of those heavily government regulated utilities are controlled by 2-4 megacorps at most. History has shown that government assumption of regulation doesn't increase competition, it squashes it. Thanks to the government two or three corporations control just about everything you see or hear, the water you drink, even the food you eat. That FCC vote did not guarantee "net neutrality"; that vote was political theater utilizing doublespeak in order to give the government the power to kill net neutrality, to deliver the internet into the hands of the government and a few incredibly power corporate entities. It is absolute proof that the only difference between the parties is empty rhetoric, doublespeak used to convince the masses, such as yourself, of their lies so you will give them control of your life.
It's all bullshit, that mostly comes from the ISPs and people who think that ALL regulation is bad. Here's a few quotes from Wheeler that I got from [this Wasington Post article](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2015/02/26/the-fcc-set-to-approve-strong-net-neutrality-rules/) about the new regulation that the FCC just passed:  &gt;Consumers should not see any immediate changes to what they see on the Internet  in some ways, Wheeler said, that was the whole point of the effort. He added that there would be no new federal taxes or fees put on Internet service providers.  &gt;This is no more a plan to regulate the Internet than the First Amendment is a plan to regulate free speech, Wheeler said.  As far as the Internet being classified as a utility, see [this answer](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2xdsdw/the_internet_is_safe_we_are_a_group_of_a_few_net/coz88ed) to that exact question from this same AMA:  &gt;Well, the Internet isn't exactly classified as a public utility now. Broadband access services are now classified under Title II of the Communications Act, which some people assume means utility because that's how landline telephone service regulated. But it's the same for cell phone voice service, and we don't really think of those as utilities at all, right?  &gt;Anyway, to answer the second part of your question, the move from the FCC yesterday put rules in place that prevent ISPs (Comcast, etc.) from blocking, throttling or engaging in "paid prioritization" (which is where you can pay to have your content delivered more quickly). It doesn't give the FCC any authority to censor content at all. 
If the issue you are talking about is volume, it is the companies fault, not the users fault. If a company is selling 10mbps to 100 people, but is only capable of providing 500mbps in total across the board, it doesn't become the consumers fault when speeds slow down because all or a majority of them max out their speeds at the same time.   Your issue with "10 users hogging 35% of the volume" ONLY happens when the company providing internet allows users to hog 35% of the volume. In the case, the company needs to up it's bandwidth allocation so that 1 user out of 100 users CAN ONLY use 1% of the bandwidth. You should only allow customers to pay for what they will receive, not what is "likely" to be received.
We don't need to 'stop rampant big business', we need to have more businesses competing against each other to make sure our options stay high and prices stay low.  Now they the government has its paws on the Internet....just let your mind try to process the horror. 
I've been capped at 300GB. It's $10 for every 50GB we go over. Me, my GF and my roommate regularly hit 600GB. That's an extra $60 every month. On top of the already stupidly high $80/month we pay for a fucking 16mbps connection.
&gt;Regulation never does that In 1911, under the Sherman Antitrust Act, the Supreme Court split Standard Oil Co. into 33 smaller companies.   &gt;or is it like the Standard Oil thing, where it actually wasn't even close to a monpoly 90% of the market share is a monopoly. This isn't debatable.  &gt;Lead paint is a problem, but I don't think government deserves credit for it not existing anymore. The government outlawed lead paint, therefore it no longer exists.  &gt;"Food safety" regulation is feel-good bullcrap that is never followed It has problems, but it is undeniably an improvement from the days of Upton Sinclair, when rat traps were emptied into meat grinders.  &amp;nbsp;  Your entire argument relies on taking historically documented facts, and insisting that they didn't happen. 
Yet the entire world isn't privy to your phone are they? Comparing a persons personal phone call to the general internet is subterfuge.
ExactlyThank you
honestly, I was doing some calculations, replacing every politician in the world with orang utangs would improve the world drastically as well as saving a lot of orang utangs by giving them safer lodging.
Really? I have never had any problem getting an IP address removed - I don't even think there's a human involved who would be able to tell. Sure you haven't been doing something nasty such as trying to automate removals?  &gt; A feature of the PBL is the elimination of 'false positives' with a server-identifying and automatic removal mechanism for single IP addresses. This allows end users with static IP addresses within a larger dynamic pool, and legitimate mail server operators, to assert that in their opinion their IP addresses are a trustworthy source of email and to automatically remove (suppress) their IP addresses from the PBL database. Safeguards are built in to prevent abuse of this facility by spammers (and particularly by automated bots).
&gt; And even if tax breaks were given, that doesn't mean that the ISPs have a never ending obligation to run a totally uncongested network (no consumer ISP, even outside the US, tries to do this - it's too expensive)  Great to hear it... time to nationalize.
I think network neutrality means "no distinction.  All IP traffic is just bits." The definition of good and bad left in the hands of private arbiters no matter how competent is problematic.   edit: arbiters
&gt; clockspeed on average doubles every 2 years (it used to go faster, but the industry has been lagging in recent years).   Which clockspeeds does that? Pentium 4 was introduced in 2002 with a clockrate of 3 GHz. It's 2015 now and the fastest processors currently is the IBM zEC12 with a clockrate of 5.5 GHz, though consumer processesor are still around 3GHz.
When will the new rules of the "free internet" apply ?
Which would do what, exactly?  Unless you propose that the nationalised entity runs in a highly inefficient and unprofitable manner and the resulting need for even greater subsidies to keep it going, it's going to be run along the same lines as today. Maybe you'll get a bit more investment (if taxpayers are willing to pay for it) but you could do that with today's arrangement if the US government grew some balls. And if you really did want a municipally run network, you might as well start from scratch and avoid the telco cruft  Electricity, water, gas, telephone and internet networks - all are run on the basis of "not everyone is going to turn all the taps on at once" and allowing potential demand to exceed capacity by some magnitude.  I hear cries to nationalise all the time on here - but often no credible justification to back it up.
Does it then apply to Skype/snapchat type chat services?  What about livestream services like Twitch or sometimes live stream services like YouTube?  If so does this mean that IP and physical addresses have to be cataloged or will the government require some sort of tracker program software be installed by the content providers?  What about a site like Reddit or Facebook, where we can communicate with direct messages, or does the forbearance only require devices that can make and receive real time audio communications?
But that's in regard to ISPs allowing traffic to their customers. We're talking about a completely different scenario, in which Google and other email providers block all email coming from residential IP addresses because the vast majority of it is spam.  Under net neutrality, your ISP can't block you from accessing GMail. There's nothing that requires GMail to allow you access to them, however.
Court system.  Before this ruling they would have to have a warrant and take said warrant to your ISP or serve it to you to find out what your IP has been doing and from where.
Not just gaming in general.  I download lots of mods, new games all the time, stream videos, download movies, use Twitch, watch eSports, and other stuff.  Now tell me how I won't reach a data cap.
I've been thinking about what it means that the FCC is unelected and yet has done a good job listening to the electorate on this topic. I came to a conclusion. The FCC is operating under the principle that the Supreme Court is operating under. If it wants to maintain legitimacy as an organization, since it is unelected, its only course of action is to act with the public interests in mind, and attempt to be as non-political/partisan as possible. I think that Tom Wheeler realizes this, finally.
&gt; As much as I am against being throttled, the amount of energy to produce the bandwidth the world is demanding each day is not magically created out of thin air.  There is no sun.
Fuck no. Nationalize the internet, what are you fucking nuts!
300 potatos to eat, 22 to plant. Eat for life potato king/queen.
How soon can we expect to feel the effects of this? I.e. Competition sprouting, throttles removed, and all that?
"All those evil corporations, we can read their evil little minds. But trust us, we passed something we don't want to show you just yet. But we're the government, so you can trust us."
 ...Oh fuck it.  This should be higher!
We'll let you know as soon as the 322 pages of legislature are released in ~6 months...  [This may help](http://66.210.33.157/mim/full_article.php?article_no=282) get you started. Imagine having to enter your credit card everytime you want to visit a site not suitable to children.
Yep, all you guys jumping for joy for this have been fooled. They've pretty much just ruined the internet. Taxes will be coming, as well as more regulations. The same people telling you there will be no new taxes are the same ones that told you that you could keep your health insurance and your doctor. When will people ever learn? 
Well, since they said there would be no new taxes, we have to believe them. I mean when have they ever lied to us in the past, right?  Also, I like how even in that first quote he says consumers should not see any immediate changes to what they see on the internet. Meaning you will see some changes eventually.
[Umm..](http://66.210.33.157/mim/full_article.php?article_no=282)
&gt;I doubt a majority of them even know how the legal process works here in America.  1.) Run a fear-mongering campaign on a non-existent issue to sway public opinion into supporting more government power.  2.) Use new-found power to fulfill alternative motives.  It's pretty simple and has happened time and time again. Gulf of Tonkin, Operation Northwoods, Patriot Act/NSA surveillance, the War on Drugs, privatized prison systems, etc. 
Don't you know. You have to pass it to find out what's in it. that's how our government works now.
&gt;Everyone is drumming up controversy over nothing and playing right into the anti-NN narrative.  Unless they aren't. The truth is nobody can be sure. It's not looking good to me though. 
How can we be sure?
Sure, but I'm in Walking distance of the second biggest University campus in the state. Which has no less than 20 T3 lines. 
It's funny that all these people who think it's a great idea because obama was for it are forgetting he will be gone soon and we might end up with another Bush or some one they don't agree with will use/misuse this.  either way there is a bunch of new govt jobs created and they are going to tax something to pay for it.  Stupid idea.
The part that the ISP has your location linked to your IP is what I meant. I don't see this being much different.
[deleted]
&gt; Some poor Tier 1 tech is going to spend a lot of time trying to calm Grandma down, wasting time/money.  I just don't think this is a good justification for the ISP getting to decide whom I get to send packets to or receive them from, nor for what purpose. As every customer-facing business is aware, some users are irrational, but that's no excuse for trying to control what I can do on the internet. If the ISPs disagree, then I'm glad the FCC seems poised to regulate them into submission.
[deleted]
That's why they will ban all encryption.   It's already in the works:[source](http://mobile.pcmag.com/mobile-apps/10576-obama-tech-that-prevents-us-from-stopping-an-attack-is-a-problem?origref=https:%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F)
Damned if you do, damned if you don't. Release the final draft and tweak it until it's exactly they way you want it but it will never become law due to being tied up in the system forever so nothing changes, or don't relase the details and be critisized for not sharing. At least something was passed that should be the right thing. Lets just hope they got it right because it's the only chance we have.
How exactly do you figure it's safer? Thanks to your weapons grade stupidity, the internet is now in the hands of political hacks. I can't wait until some staunch rightwing President appoints an FCC commission that starts regulating what kind of sexual content is permissible over broadband, now that it is a regulated utility.  You people are achingly dumb and deserve all that is coming your way. 
ISPs were the only thing reclassified, webpages and web services are sill classified under information services. I really don't think you understand this at all.
[deleted]
Looking at everything as a conspiracy is just as flawed as looking at everything as hunky dory.
Your right we should have just kept segregation..... Really?
[deleted]
That's the biggest bullshit reason for bandwidth caps I've heard,  and I've heard a lot.   Don't fucking offer X bandwidth if you can't really offer it and make a profit.   Oh,  the poor starving ISPs.    Isn't TWCs. *net* profit on home Internet over 95%?   Yes,  yes it is.   The only other return like that is wholesaling fucking cocaine direct from Columbia. 
No it's not. I admit all of those things happen. What I'm contesting is what the result was and why they happened.  The Sherman Anti-Trust Act for example...at it's PEAK, Standard Oil had an 80% market share. That's not a monopoly. By the time the government got around to actually getting off their lazy asses, that market share had dropped quite a bit.  Standard Oil's large market share was not a detriment to the economy, not for the consumer, not for competition, not for oil prices. So why "break it up"?
Myth  Most Americans were poor and exploited due to poor leftist economic decisions by the government, a huge one being the Federal Reserve Act, which gave private banks, not congress, control over money.  There were no monopolies either
Did you not read the rest? There's every reason to think this is what they say it is. If they wanted to block net neutrality they'd block it. If they didn't want it classified as title II utility then this vote and all the news would make no sense.  I feel like a lot of reddit really doesn't get how the system works and is learning it for the first time as the news unfolds, and just throwing out cynicism every step of the way. 
What about solar panels to help counter that? 
So you responded with this long winded message after 4 but still couldn't take a second to answer whether or not you had read it?  Seems kind of silly to me. Also seems a little shady. 
And that's the bullshit that's going to happen to everyone.    I just don't get all these cap apologists that pop up in threads like this.   ISPs make massive,  massive profits without caps. It's complete bullshit. 
The sky is not falling. The internet hasn't been the Wild West for some time now. This is exactly what reddit asked for and is just sensible policy. The only "blind leading the blind" going on is the manufactured conservative FUD talking points you've swallowed and are spreading around that this is some kind of government takeover of the Internet. 
And you aren't helping.  See you at NANOG.    Or,  I suspect I won't. 
They stupidly voted for authorization of force under the promise that it would be used as leverage in diplomacy and war would only be a last resort. They were having their patriotism attacked relentlessly and bullied into the vote. I'm not excusing it but you have to also realize the power dynamics that were happening. It's not accurate or useful to claim they are or were just the same as republicans. If Gore won, we likely wouldn't have gone into Iraq. 
Like totally, oh my gawd. Labor discrimination would drive costs of employable labor (white) up because the pool to draw from would be smaller. (scarcity increases price) On the opposing end the non discriminatory business would get cheaper labor / prices for goods giving it an advantage over the later. Through competition the racist prick would go out of business eventually removing the price and wage cost advantage / disadvantage and the market would have been unhampered. instead you &amp; I now have to get a degree at an overpriced (noticing a trend here?) college.
It's bidirectional.  You're covering a perspective where I only consume services provided out there in the ether.  That's not necessarily true.  What if I want to host a web server?  My ISP prevents me from using their service for some of the most fundamental activities on the internet.  This kind of blocking has directly contributed to the current state where users are monopolized by consumer ISPs and content is centralized into fewer than 20 umbrella organizations.    Regarding Google, if the rules state that application providers must also be neutral so be it.  We'll all get spam and the FCC will have hell to pay.  That said, I think we are having different conversations.
I said: "to look objectively at your life, society and its history"  does not translate to: "Looking at everything as a conspiracy"  Sometimes shit just happens, and sometimes it doesn't. You've got the responsibility to yourself to discern, dare i say "discriminate" between the two. 
I went talk to the local branch and they have an option to increase your cap by 150GB for $20. Slightly cheap if you always go over.
Instead of increasing clock-speed the last decade has been spent adding more cores. [This](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16819117404) for example has eight cores at 3.0ghz. Research has moved on to more than just clock speed. You have to pay attention to the number of operations it's capable of and other things like cache and pipeline advancements.
And the legal decision that ruled it unconstitutional is which one exactly though? On Reddit everyone declares everything they don't like "unconstitutional" even after courts rule it constitutional (e.g. NSA surveillance).
The executed ones spoke out?   Some people (criminals) got brought to an auxillary police facility rather than the main precinct station. This does not amount to illegal detention like they've been snatched off the street and vanished.
&gt;Servailance is a figure of reddit's imagination?  Yes. No American is being spied on, contrary to Reddit's imagination. Just as they've turned net neutrality into "The FCC's going to censor the Internet!" with no justification whatsoever, some metadata collection has turned into "THE NSA RECORDS EVERYTHING I SAY!!!" There's an entire subreddit where similar rantings are collected and shared.   &gt; And here I was thinking that the NSA was sucking up all the data it could get  &gt;its hands on  No, it isn't, never was, and outside of conspiracy websites, no legitimate source ever made that claim. It's as groundless as the FCC/censorship paranoia.  &gt; Glad you put that scandal to rest! /s  You're welcome. 
Then why didn't that fucking happen? Do you support slavery as well because the free market totally fixed that...  Jesus Christ.
The guidelines are only going to be policy detail concerning how the FCC interacts with the providers, monitors for compliance, addresses complaints, etc. It's not going to be anything that directly affects the end users and nothing we need to panic about because we haven't seen yet.
The NSA does not monitor Americans' locations or even have a reason to care about such a thing. It's a foreign signal intelligence gathering unit.
The only objective thing in this situation is to hold judgment until the rules are released. You are not being objective by jumping right to the worst case scenario.
Still no reason to hide them from the public. If the people want to see them and the FCC refuses then something's up. 
&gt; And you aren't helping.  Do you have a specific problem with something I've said, or are you just going for the generic snide remark here?  Are you denying that network capacity is finite despite the cost to build and maintain said capacity?  &gt; See you at NANOG.  &gt; Or, I suspect I won't.   I don't live in **N**orth **A**merica, and am not a NANOG member, so nope. Based on some of your comments I have to question your credentials too
Huh, tell that to Ed Snowden. 
You want it done? Do it.
In 1931, the FCC refused to renew the license of an Iowa radio station whose content they deemed trivial, and included alternative health information. The station, said the Commission, was "at times vulgar, if not indecent" and not sufficiently "uplifting or entertaining," which they implied was "not the proper use of a broadcasting license".  In 1971, talk radio station KTRG in Honolulu has started broadcasting libertarian discussions and programming. The FCC threatened non-renewal of license; the station didn't have the money to appeal the decision and shut down.
The branch of the discussion I was referring to wasn't in regard to whether or not the rules would force ISPs to allow residential users to host servers, it was referring to whether mail servers, specifically, were feasible to run on a home connection, regardless of the rules.  If the rules state that application providers must be neutral, wouldn't that mean it's illegal to ban someone from using your website? I'm pretty sure the rules won't apply to application providers at all, though we won't know for sure until they're available for public review.
&gt; Isn't TWCs. net profit on home Internet over 95%?  &gt; Yes, yes it is.   Which click-bait website told you that? I'd be willing to bet that it's a misinterpretation of some statistic somewhere. It sounds like it came from the "SMSes should be free because they don't take up any bandwidth" school of economics
ACTUALLY, the survailance state has resulted in far more Americans being arrested over drug and tax laws than anything else. Unconstotutional survailance is being targeted at Americans and then secretly used in their trials without the knowledge of the judges or the defendants. [SOURCE](http://mobile.reuters.com/article/idUSBRE97409R20130805?irpc=932)  I guess [The Guardian](http://www.theguardian.com/us-news/the-nsa-files) is a conspiracy website full fake documents leaked by Snowden.   It's respectable to admit when you are wrong.
But didn't we just pass a law that says that the FCC can control them like a utility?
I went and talked to them as well. No dice unfortunately. "nothing I can do, sir"
Ah yes, the "words mean whatever the fuck I want them to mean" argument. Stay classy, dipshit.
[deleted]
To paraphrase:  Reality, and property rights, are is subject to "views."  Also "roads!!!!"   Your views, are evil.
The FRA was passed in 1913, and prior to that 'leftist' (which at the time meant democratic socialism) philosophy had gained little traction. Consider how much opposition there was to labor unions and tell me that liberals were calling the shots.  Yet the extreme social inequalities that define the period had already existed for decades.
Not quite. It's regulated under TitleII, but that's not quite the same. Also, they didn't pass a new law- it was an existing one . They've always had this power, but they tried to avoid using it. ISPs forced it because they sued the FCC when the FCC tried to stop them from charging from fast lanes. (which is a bit of irony, because most people, even pro regulation, didn't want to do this. The problem was, this was the only way to get legal power to stop certain practices, so it forced their hand.)   From this article, they can:  The core net neutrality provisions are bans on blocking and throttling traffic, a ban on paid prioritization, and a requirement to disclose network management practices. Broadband providers will not be allowed to block or degrade access to legal content, applications, services, and non-harmful devices or favor some traffic over others in exchange for payment. There are exceptions for "reasonable network management" and certain data services that don't use the "public Internet." Those include heart monitoring services and the Voice over Internet Protocol services offered by home Internet providers.  The reasonable network management exception applies to blocking and throttling but not paid prioritization.  There are additional Title II requirements that go beyond previous net neutrality rules. There are provisions to investigate consumer complaints, privacy rules, and protections for people with disabilities. Content providers and network operators who connect to ISPs' networks can complain to the FCC about "unjust and unreasonable" interconnection rates and practices. There are also rules guaranteeing ISPs access to poles and other infrastructure controlled by utilities, potentially making it easier to enter new markets  And they can't: The order makes clear that broadband providers will not be subject to utility-style regulation. This means no unbundling, tariffs, or other forms of rate regulation, and the order does not require broadband providers to contribute to the Universal Service Fund, nor does it impose, suggest, or authorize any new taxes or fees.  Also, they already had the power to regulate prices, but they're not interested in it.
I'm not a conservative I'm just connecting the dots. FCC regulations [like these](http://www.fcc.gov/guides/obscenity-indecency-and-profanity) could very easily be applied using this bill
&gt;I think being cautious of the government setting up the internet to track  &gt;people's locations is a valid concern  I think being cautious of the government attacking its citizens with ravenous hippos is a valid concern, but I have no reason to believe it's anything other an ad hoc scenario I just made up.  &gt; considering what they did with phones  And what do you *believe* they did with phones (as compared to what they actually did, which Reddit doesn't seem to understand)?  &gt; and their track record with spying recently.   They're a spy agency. They spy on foreigners. We pay them to do that. Contrary to Reddit rantings, they weren't spying on Americans (nor would they even have a conceivable reason to that would fit with their mission).  &gt;The FCC is not a spying organization directly  ....or indirectly.   &gt; but they could lay the framework down for government surveillance to easily  &gt;follow  That statement makes no sense. The mission of the FCC is not to "lay the framework down for government surveillance".  
&gt;ACTUALLY, the survailance state has resulted in far more Americans being  &gt;arrested over drug and tax laws than anything else. &gt; Unconstotutional survailance is being targeted at Americans  Who said it's unconstitutional? Strip away the sensationalism and what you have is sanctioned surveillance accidentally uncovering domestic illegal activity. This information is then passed on to more local law enforcement carefully so as not to compromise the sensitive intelligence operation that uncovered it.  &gt; and then secretly used in their trials without the knowledge of the judges or  &gt;the defendants. SOURCE  That's not what it said exactly. They were tipping off law enforcement about illegal activity.  Law enforcement didn't say how they initially began their investigation. It's not like illegally obtained evidence was being used at trial.  &gt;I guess The Guardian is a conspiracy website full fake documents leaked by  &gt;Snowden.  Generally, yes.  &gt;It's respectable to admit when you are wrong.  I still don't see the systematic, intentional, illegal surveillance of Americans Reddit loves to talk about. The NSA doesn't care about what some farmer in Iowa is doing; they're trying to protect the nation. No one's illegally listening to your phone conversations or reading your e-mail. 
Somebody should. He has no background to understand anything he grabbed and leaked (including what was dangerous to leak). Some journalists have even written that his own documents contradict some of the claims he makes. And he seems to believe Russia is a bastion of freedom, so he really needs to get some perspective.
Nobody's "hiding [anything] from the public". Those are weasel words. Per Ars Technica:  &gt;The full net neutrality order has not been published yet. The FCC's majority  &gt;is required to include the Republicans' dissents in the order and "be  &gt;responsive to those dissents," Wheeler said. The order will go on the FCC's  &gt;website after that process. The rules will go into effect 60 days after  &gt;publication in the Federal Register, with one small exception. Enhancements  &gt;to the transparency rule must undergo an additional review by the Office of  &gt;Management and Budget because they make changes to the one part of the  &gt;2010 net neutrality order that survived court challenge.  
Whatchu talkin about Willis?!  "We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America."  It's literally the first paragraph of the freaking constitution. Common defense and general welfare to secure liberty. It is literally the thesis statement of the constitution.
Right, of course it's finite. I initially upvoted that "bandwidth is infinite" comment for its elegant sarcasm.
You admit that there is a mass domestic surveillance program being used to prosecute Americans for petty crimes (not terrorism). At the same time you deny that there is any program of domestic servailance.   This is called DOUBLETHINK, straight out of George Orewel's 1984. DoublePlusUnGood!
He meant that the regulation that was just passed doesn't include any new taxes. Feel free to speculate about where it may end up 25 years down the road all you like, but what was just passed INCLUDES NO NEW TAXES on the internet. Your OMG, the gub'ment is after my money crap really isn't adding anything to the conversation. This is about what the regulation that the FCC just passed actually does, not about wild conspiracy theories and pointless slippery slope arguments which are not based in the facts of the action just taken by the FCC.
&gt;And he seems to believe Russia is a bastion of freedom, so he really needs to get some perspective.  No, he believed that Russia wouldn't extradite him back to the USA. And he had no intention of staying in Russia, he was planning on flying right back out to somewhere else, but the US revoked his passport and now he's stuck there.
It's already starting to go in that direction. Private prisons are on the rise, and you'll be hard pressed to find one where there aren't inmates doing labor for wayyyy less than minimum wage.
[deleted]
Your follow up gets my upvote, for adding to the conversation. Good on ya. 
We haven't figured out to make solar panels efficient 100% yet.
I'm not talking about personal ISPs.  I'm talking about bandwidth in general.  It takes a lot more electricity than people are realizing, and with the higher and higher demand for data speed and data access in general, files are getting larger, speed is getting faster, etc., it's going to continuously demand more energy that we have to come up with.
Still, my point is that the entire operation of data transferring requires more and more energy the more people become accessible to online computers.  Something that no one seems to ever address because "it's not an issue yet."  Kind of like how cars back in the 60s or 70s.
[deleted]
It's easy to look up, . [this is the first crappy link,  but they have real sources.  And everything](http://m.huffpost.com/us/entry/6591916)    There's hundreds more if you just Google. TWC profit.  
Can you not see Comcast blocking all internet chat sites unless they comply to the law so Comcast doesn't get in trouble?  Here's a way to look at it- broadcast TV often buys its material from a third party.  Let's say you were watching a baseball game live on broadcast TV and the entire crowd decided to strip naked and run across the field.  The local broadcasters are the ones responsible for the images, even if it happened to be on "LSD: Tuesday's Double Header" at the ballpark.  Situations like that put the Service Provider (broadcast network) in a position to only accept things from the content provider (MLB, Whatever teams/stadium) so long as it fits in to their rules, such as running with a tape delay, running a certain number of cameras and with a certain amount of time cut out for commercials, or sharing the feed to only certain providers.  What the rules are for Title II, and how subjective/objective they may be is still a very murky subject.  We have a man who less than 5 years ago put forth a plan that the entire internet called out for being authoritative and wrong, but let some time pass and put out a lot of comments that sound vague enough to make us all think it's for us and we forget this is the people who wanted to control the internet not keep it free.
