Chris, did it ever occur to you that the OkCupid Compatibility Calculation would also be useful for helping aspiring superheros find their arch-nemesis?
Yes, that's specifically what we made enemy percentages for.
Hello Chris,  You probably dont remember me, but I sent you a message via Twitter about 9 months ago telling you about how I met my husband, a 99% match, on OkCupid and how we got married in Las Vegas exactly a month after meeting in Montreal. Hes a Canadian, Im an American, and were living in Toronto now while hes working in television and Im a phone sex dominatrix. Were still happily married and keep discovering every day how crazy life can be living with someone who is almost your mirror image personality and interest-wise. You responded to congratulate us and gave me Christians email address so I could contact him about an idea I had.  At the time, I wanted to create a short little film about how my husband and I met and how uniquely OkCupidian the whole experience was. Since then, I actually fleshed the idea out a bit more and would like to make a documentary about OkCupid. The documentary will focus on crazy/funny OkCupid stories (like the guy who found his mom and she was a 95% match), the OkC subculture in large cities (especially NYC, where almost everyone I knew was on there), and on the people who have been on the site for many, MANY years (like myself).  Is there any way that you would consider being interviewed for it?  Thanks for reading!
Hey guys,  Thanks for doing this. Wish I had some spare cash lying around to bid on some of these - they look great. What made you decide to view the artistic side of code and portray it as other art forms would showcase their work?
When you say 'free software' - do you extend that same philosophy to copyrights , patents and other intellectual property?? 
what inspires you?
Free software is about freedom, and yes, that same philosophy extends to copyrights and patents and so on.   The basic point is that innovation and reuse is hobbled and restricted by government granted monopolies.  that's what these things are: monopolies.   
Congrats, again! I would consider it if you send me the details. (My email address is pretty easy to find.)
Thanks! Will be sending along the details this week.
How many distinct personality 'types' do you think there are if any at all? 
How do you think the future is going to be different given that so many of our decisions are being made now by computer algorithms?
Chris - how do you feel about people using spark notes instead of reading the book? 
I knew it! When they remake The Tick, I hope they address that.  How does it feel knowing you have brought so many people together with the power of math?
[deleted]
The danger with leaving decisions to computer algorithms is that the algorithms are too often "black boxes", largely because the software is proprietary.   People don't have the opportunity to examine them and understand why they produce the results they do.  This is already a worrisome trend, and it is increasing.  Transparency is a good thing, and we are losing it because of proprietary software.  
I'm a technologist and my partner at Ruse Laboratories is a painter. As he taught me to paint and I taught him to code, we discovered that both pursuits drew on aesthetics. Hal has spoken for years about technologists as artists (check out his [amazing 6.001 lecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Op3QLzMgSY)). I'm very excited to showcase the beauty of these technologists' work at such a prestigious location as the Smithsonian.  I was personally inspired by Patron model of the art world, and how it can be applied to technology. Collecting algorithms, and showcasing their power and ubiquity, is a compelling way to connect technologists with like-minded patrons who can support their vision, irrespective of strictly commercial interests. This leaves technologists free to create software purely for the love of the aesthetic.
Chris, what is one of the craziest stories from your OKCupid days that you can share publicly?
Hey Chris.   I really miss [OkTrends](http://blog.okcupid.com/). What inspired y'all to write them? I found those posts super useful, and I still refer to them sometimes. Could we have some more updated entries, please?
I personally like to work on things that are a combination of (1) creative, and (2) likely to make other people's lives better. The latter is a silicon valley cliche, but it has become a guiding requirement for me and my business partners from OkCupid, SparkNotes, and Keybase. (I've worked with the same guys since college.) We're in the fortunate position now to work on whatever software we want, and we're unlikely to pursue something just because it's a great business. It has to be creatively challenging and rewarding, and it has to be, in our opinion, good for the world.  In my free time, I like to make software that generates art, and I've done a number of projects, most of them private. One thing is CFDG, a language for generating art.  (It's nice to have Hal on here, because turtle graphics was an inspiration for that.)  The algorithmic auction is particularly appealing to me because (1) it benefits a museum, and (2) it's a wonderful combination of creative programming. I feel lucky to be included.
I hope this is true because it makes things make so much more sense. 
Mostly not great. But it depends on the book.  Also compulsory reading can take the love away.  Btw, my father was a high school English teacher and he said he never truly appreciated Moby Dick until he used a study guide alongside it. I felt the same way about Lolita.  Aside: I used to get the digs in by telling him I caused more reading avoidance per day than he could get his students to do in a lifetime.
I think people can be pretty clearly partitioned into ~7 billion personality types.
Which one your accomplishments are you most proud of? Why?
This phenomenon Hal mentions is going to continue to expand for a variety of reasons: (1) there's more data than ever, and consumer products are designed to filter information for us, a feature we demand (how is it filtered?); (2) machine learning is increasingly becoming a part of that decision-making process, and even the developers are losing a full understanding of how their software "decides"; (3) the mobile platforms we've switched to are providing us apps which are typically run away from our own devices, meaning the software we run is dynamic and changing all the time. The block boxes are evolving. Transparency is approaching zero.
What is something you have wanted to do for a long time, but never got the chance?
I'll answer for me and Chirs can answer for him.   I'm most proud of the work I did in university computer science education and the book I wrote with Gerry Sussman, Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. It articulated an "AI based approach" to CS education that had not been done before, and has had a lot of influence. 
hey Hal or Chris who is your favorite visual artist? 
I've wanted to get back to doing elementary education for  a long time.  It's only recently that I was able to do this, through App Inventor and teach kids about mobile apps. 
What happened to http://blog.okcupid.com/? The analysis done there was amazing and always worth a read. 
@marajordan:  Not the answer you might be expecting, but I'll say my favorite visual artist is Zhang Yomou  for the visual effect of some of the scenes in his movies.
Oh! Are you part of App Inventor? We are using that right now for the Technovation Challenge (with my middle school nieces). Thanks for that!   Huge request / suggestion for the next version update of App Inventor 3 ~ In addition to the Designer and Blocks Screens, please can we also have a Text Code screen for Advanced users?? 
The hardest part of this question is knowing where the line is. There are so many things I can't say.  One easy example: at OkCupid, we spent a lot of time having fun, playing around with the site's content.  There's always been an essay question on OkCupid: "The Six Things I Could Never Do Without..." This was a poke a Nerve, which at the time was a popular dating site.  They had a similar question, but about 5 things.   Well, one day someone jokingly changed it to say "Things I think about while masturbating..." on 1 in N pageloads. (I think N was 100 or 1000.) So every once in a while you'd see that heading followed by "Hall &amp; Oates" or "my computer" or "my dog, Tilly."   I had to take it down when a guy in a divorce proceeding had a screenshot of it presented to a judge with "my kids" underneath it, by his wife. I had to provide a letter to the judge explaining the whole thing.
+1 for elementary education!  Hal and I worked together on App Inventor and I also started a program to teach Computer Science to middle and elementary school students. I noticed it was very easy to attract boys to the program, who were already interested in code through gaming or mathematics.  By talking about the power and pervasiveness of algorithms, I want to reshape the language we use to describe these wonderful creations and attract a more diverse group to the world of computing. 
Faviroute pizza?
Work-wise, so far it's OkCupid. We have some big plans for Keybase, and we'll be launching something later this year I'll be very proud of.
[deleted]
@kamala:  funny you should mention that.   We're working on it with Lyn Turbak and Wellesley and one of this students.  It's something we want to do.  I can't give and ETA because it's complicated:  you want to arrange things so that you can translate back and forth between blocks and text. 
good algorithm !
Beyond a certain scale it is hard to appreciate. But I have a number of close friends and family who are in excellent relationships because of OkCupid. That's what feels best.
I'm boring about pizza:  linguica, maybe with ricotta 
I'm partial to [Philippe Halsman](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philippe_Halsman), who worked closely with Dal (as his technologist and co-conspirator) on a number of fantastic projects.
[deleted]
Chris, you plan on stopping by /r/OkCupid ?
Hi guys! Met my husband on OkCupid, so thanks! January was our 4 year dataversary and on May 17th we'll have been married 2 years.  Question 1) how many partners have you guys met online? Any using your ow n algorithm?  Question 2) since we're a success story, when do we get our free t-shirts? (This has been a joke between us since our second date)
Hi Chris I've never had a successful date on your app. How do you deal with people with ugly photos? 
mushrooms and black olives!
Congrats! (1) none, all of us who founded OkC were dating our SO's when the project launched. (2) Love AND t-shirts? New business idea... 
Years ago I found okcupid to be a semi-reliable dating site.  Now, with the influx of people and more casual approach, it is tedious, and boring, and just **UGH**.  What, if any, are your potential plans for improvement?  If you don't have anything big in the works... are you planning on just selling it away, bit by bit?
For Keybase, are you trying to make encryption and private communications easier for non-technical people to use?   Keybase is great for techies to have a unified easy to use keystore, but how can we make verifiable open encryption *easy*?
Keybase, as it is right now, isn't so useful for non-programmers. It's a directory, and I believe it's the right kind of directory, but it doesn't answer a number of questions.  We're working on something now -- I don't want to let the cat out of the bag early, but these are all needed for secure communications:  (1) correctly solving the identity problem (no key fingerprints, key signing parties, etc.) (2) good cross-client software (3) per device keys, not a private key you need to move around.  Also, with a successful PKI the goal isn't just privacy, it's authenticity / verification. It's very hard right now to collaborate with safety.
Could you detail how the Friend and Enemy percentages are calculated? The FAAAAQ tells how Match works, but not the others.  There's um, lots of theories. https://www.quora.com/How-does-OkCupid-calculate-the-friend-and-enemy-percentages https://www.okcupid.com/help/match-percentages
Right?! I mean, we'd make your t-shirts look good..   Also, seriously thank you. Your website changed my life in the best way possible. He was the first and only man I met, and I could not have asked for a better partner.  You guys hit it out of the park with OkCupid!
Chris, do you regret OkCupid's role in ostracizing Brendan Eich? Do you think people should feel comfortable sharing info with OkCupid knowing their personal activities may haunt them publicly and professionally?
&lt;3 Love this too
How is your band Bishop-Allen working out?
Someone is a smartass. Bet your teachers loved you....
[deleted]
Raw enemy percentage is (1-raw match percentage). Your raw match and raw enemy add up to 100%.  That said, the way confidence adjustments work has gotten sensitive to the game-ability of questions. It used to be enemy % = raw enemy % - conf adj., and match % = raw match % - conf adj. It's no longer that simple on the confidence adjustment side. You can think of your mach percentage now as something approximating the odds someone would score as well as they did with you in raw score, given the questions in your intersection.  So it used to be that as your question intersection approached infinity, your M+E approached 100%.  (Disclaimer: I no longer work at OkC, and they may have changed something in the last couple years, too.)   None of that includes external data (messaging patterns, photos, etc.). Match score is/was strictly a function of your answers, their answers, and confidence adjustments based on aggregate question stats.  Friend % is some measure of whether you tend to be attracted/repulsed by the same things. Not whether you are the same. When I last looked, it was a weighted average of those agreements, weighted by your stated importances. Again with some confidence adjustment that shrank the more (good) q's in common.  Edit: raw match + raw enemy = 100% no matter what. 
What's your favorite flavor of ice cream?
Agreed! Their article on [the power of a polarizing appearance](http://blog.okcupid.com/index.php/the-mathematics-of-beauty/) was awesome--funny, interesting, thought-provoking. Would love to read more like it.
Hi Hal!   I doubt you remember me, but I was a TA for you and Leslie and Jacob for 6.01/6.188 in back in Spring 2007 (and /u/gleitz was an LA!). I truly enjoyed that experience, and I wanted to thank you for the trust and freedom you gave me in TAing 6.188 - I still remember being tremendously nervous about teaching freshmen about tree recursion, but your faith in me was very helpful.  Anyway, my question for you is: what, if anything, do you think is lost by not teaching 6.001 / Scheme as the introductory class for Course VI? Do you think students are better prepared now with a more "practical" language like Python?
What do i need to do to get hooked up with a premium okcupid account?
that is tragically hilarious.
To Chris, My life has been forever changed because of my GF and I both using OKCupid.  I cant imagine living without her or our beautiful daughter (or the one on the way).  It made my dreams come true.  Thank you.  And now i have to ask a question for this post to be accepted?
Why OKCupid? Why not GreatCupid? 
You're thinking of Christian Rudder, my co-founder at OkCupid.  I am proud to be in the opening line in one of their songs, however:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4JQIGrTEKw 
I'm not sure if you can really say that because you had a bad experience on a site, the site requires plans for improvement (or getting scrapped altogether). I personally love using okcupid *because* it attracts normal people who are open to casual dating--not necessarily just hooking up, but being open to grabbing a beer with someone who seems fun and not getting stuck in a formal "so what are your religious and/or spiritual beliefs?" convo that some of the more stuffy sites can facilitate.  Anyway, there are lots of dating site and app alternatives, from Coffee Meets Bagel to Match to Bumble to Tinder and everything in between. If okcupid isn't working for your vibe, maybe worth investigating other options?
You're getting downvoted, but I actually am interested in the marketplace approach to its users' attractiveness that I hear the site has: word on the street is that people who are evaluated as being more attractive (based on rate of views and messages) get free or cheaper privileges that cost other users far more. It makes sense, from a business model perspective: you want to court your hottest users, and walk a tricky line of profiting from but not alienating your less hot users.   Anyway, would be fascinated as to whether there's truth to this, and, if so, how it operates.
It's a Match!
OKtrends especially racial dynamics were especially very intriguing and eyeopening. Is there going to be a 2015 or 2016 race dyamic post like the 2009-2014 one?
Chris, do you realize what you have done to me?  Thanks to you and OkCupid, I got engaged this past weekend!  Now I have save up for a ring...  Seriously, thank you for OkCupid.
Can you build a website / algorithm to reduce or pay off my ~$70k in student loans?  :)
I should clarify.  I feel like that changes in quick match, and the sheer # of people using it now has changed the dynamic.  There are wide varieties of people on there with varying objectives.  These can't exactly be broken down into "what am I looking for".  There are a lot of other issues as well.  Like if you use search parameters to narrow a search to see if someone smokes it negates all profiles that don't answer... but they may not smoke?    Someone mentioned the other day that implementing couples profiles would be helpful for people in open or poly relationships.  I think with the abundance of people that fit that description using it, it would be beneficial.  There are also a lot of questions that are either redundant, or really have no good purpose in determining a match.  I believe those should be edited.  These are just a few thoughts off the top of my head, I am unfortunately at work and cannot brainstorm a more concise/coherent list right now.
[deleted]
[deleted]
I read that article many moons ago, thanks for posting it again. Its one of the most interesting articles ive read! 
I mean, if you can verify that she is a phone sex dominatrix (which is obviously doable), why the hell wouldn't you interview them?! You could even do a special month that only focuses on unusual couples. Maybe in July after you do a month of only same sex couples in June. 
Why did my account get deleted? Am I just to ugly for your site?  I didn't have anything nude or controversial. Its to much of a pain to go back and remake the profile so I stopped using your site.
Obviously they named the site after the OK Corral. 
do you have data on how often a 90 match versus 80 ends up being a successful relationship? 
I personally don't think he's a smart ass for saying that at all. People shouldn't be labeled into such narrow boundaries of "personality types." Maybe it's because I live in New York City and am exposed to diversity 24/7, but every person is at least a little bit different and should be recognized as such. 
This is one of the best things I've ever read. 
ANOTHER! http://imgur.com/ZK6uKKw  But seriously, what is the 2nd craziest story you can share?
Hahaha oh god what
I would hide your profile.
&gt; linguica  TIL there is an alternative to pepperoni that is not Canadian Bacon or Chorizo.
Hi Chris,   Can you talk about the unfolding 'kopimist' movement, and where you see it going in the next 5-10 years? What I mean is, do you see the public desire for access to free/cheap information as being successfully mitigated by the various at-risk industries, or do you think that we're going to keep seeing high-profile hacking scandals and file-sharing until advances in security and encryption make information sharing less plausible? 
Where do you see the future of software development, in terms of the proprietary nature of most code that's currently written by companies? We've seen open source gain prevalence in recent years, with Rails as one prominent example. Is this a fluke? Or will the trend continue? Where will it lead? Will companies embrace permissive licenses like MIT, or will the GPL make a horrific comeback? 
[deleted]
You're dick pics weren't that flattering. Try using the thirds rule next go 'round. 
[deleted]
Hi Chris, just wanted to say thanks for an excellent GPG system, far easier than any other identity management toolsets.  Any chance of creating a web of trust similar to bitcoin-otc on top of it?
Wait, are you my Uncle
[deleted]
Reddit and imgur are prime examples. You can't make a single broad statement on people, (e.g. A lot of girls prefer green apple skittles to lime) without receiving a ton of replies filled with anecdotes to contradict your statement.  You can even dilute your statement with "Not all, but a good amount of people - in my personal experience, based on my encounters in this region and in this social bracket - tend to fart more during rom coms" You will still hear from someone who thinks you're a prick for generalizing them (incorrectly). 
Considering Keybase, I'll speaka your language:  	$ keybase encrypt chris -m "Hey, I love Keybase, and of course OkCupid. I'm in the NYC area. Are there any events you go to to discuss encryption and data modeling? Would love to chat and or possibly help out with the project!" 	info: ...all remote checks are up-to-date 	 public key fingerprint: 94AA 3A5B DBD4 0EA5 49CA BAF9 FBC0 7D6A 9701 6CB3 	 "malgorithms" on twitter: https://twitter.com/malgorithms/status/433640580220874754 (you've recently OK'ed this proof) 	 "malgorithms" on github: https://gist.github.com/8852373 (you've recently OK'ed this proof) 	 "malgorithms" on reddit: https://www.reddit.com/r/KeybaseProofs/comments/2kpa4r/my_keybase_proof_redditmalgorithms_keybasechris/ (you've recently OK'ed this proof) 	 "bitcoyne" on coinbase: https://coinbase.com/bitcoyne/public-key (you've recently OK'ed this proof) 	 "malgorithms" on hackernews: https://news.ycombinator.com/user?id=malgorithms (you've recently OK'ed this proof) 	 admin of keybase.io via HTTPS: https://keybase.io/.well-known/keybase.txt (you've recently OK'ed this proof) 	 admin of chriscoyne.com via HTTPS: https://chriscoyne.com/keybase.txt (you've recently OK'ed this proof) 	 admin of the DNS zone for chriscoyne.com (you've recently OK'ed this proof) 	info: Nothing to do; tracking is up-to-date 	-----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE----- 	Version: GnuPG v2  	hQIMA9IkQTsc+mSQARAAtEu6laqqKPkPVB51/qDxfnM4JsaNishnlCXKCnSs1SRE 	+NURFlFebu3rrIdqgDuomwEva+U7x8rLMiGuv6zlEPECAo9HH+A77kT6EQzmJj2A 	nno+RdSyuQxM7qgXxWerLD4w1MS/921UXYh33VQtszokjc3If8z4gQSyDatuw/Nz 	P7pm1UCeRcwugXX2sH0gujyiLizStOx31SGP6ekILaXPclIaVRWakRs5iMS6bP0y 	y+on6oNx8XgW297B7FMfwcmEk3jbpn7Jk50BOJt3GaAN9jQEugwBUzY9UkhbenE0 	9fmy0isNsZt77f+BuU7KSshVzerx0Do/468DkaeRqsU/zwwGQrdBK0TA5BXKho8w 	a/GFiNiK+B8XgrCpTzkdbcTd7ZW8Xr94+oc98njQmtULfO9opXfiSjtrmH7u4S/R 	nE+hs1NPRlF3KanSyHJ+Qx5mLngiwkYhoOy3twdcHUCBhoZ6o4jj0pWUAcxUkUBb 	l2odYPglxQYHjw4Hmz79rFvvAtRHKGN+ydTf4zJBVjEyXLf2HZX/TXZ8tz4LQru8 	DXQfv9IUcgP6yMv0BDw8LLeeEl1e5XpvRknGIyRMrVLkyCksQrjgqMEI9deLN33y 	I6N8L5CSZSRRJhiMsir6hlJeqyIyxWR6gpSR+02ee368vyg9WtEfRdh6YaLKpGfS 	wBsBHUBDVihvVYfOa3nlHyriTYaGZ52mN/Flon2L3Ky2KYR+OQl6RG3wwy1UC1gM 	k/DtKSZnBG4AcZ8bscWKV4HsHWoc7U6EZeUMbu4vt5sQYnCZI0MhYYSJRwmGCr3I 	bIcQRAKGymYlBgziWnYjtvNojeIK/iZyezqxUPS+brksDnh9DAtfddcEgbWTzbbF 	OSoa5upfcygn1CR/0RmvLvRWYas/4SNVBycQjFXhrfA3X5MxUgrrQQ1Y9iRPC9h0 	JIOQHdV48nIv0VOXSdJf6KtAQFOUUB6m6OD1Gwg= 	=nXsA 	-----END PGP MESSAGE-----
Professor Abelson, I was so grateful to you when you took on the [MIT report about the prosecution of Aaron Swartz](http://swartz-report.mit.edu/). You are greatly respected and loved in the community that Aaron was a member of and I appreciate your commitment to explaining the Institvte's role in his prosecution. My question is, were you happy with the outcome of the report? It's been some twenty months since the report was published, did it have the impact you wanted?
[deleted]
Noway! I went to glamour shots and everything for those dickpics. I had sparkley glamorous underwear and big bouffant pubic hair and everything.
[deleted]
Hi Chris, I'm a frequent OkCupid user (~7years) who also happens to be a black male. In all my years of using OKCupid, it has been very difficult to know if the person I'm contacting is even interested in someone of my racial background. This creates a lot of inefficiency for me since I unwittingly craft and send messages to users who are not favorable.  Why hasn't the OKCupid team included a feature that allows users to select based on racial preferences? Is there a rationale why OKCupid decided not to go with this feature?  
I fuckin love Hall &amp; Oates
Didn't everyone die horrible deaths ther-- nevermind, makes sense. 
[deleted]
My fiance and I are getting married in October. We met on OKCupid, and certainly wouldn't have met without it. I wanted to say thank you. She, however, would also like to add, do you need couples for advertising? :p  I also heard something about t-shirts?
I met my husband on Okcupid. We had a ridiculously high match percentage and because of that we decided that e were pretty much obligated to give eachother a chance. We had a 10 hour long first date and were married a year and a half later.  Thank you so much for what you helped to do.  On a different note, do  believe that this kind of algorithm could be helpful in workplaces? As in using these tests to help find coworkers that may be more compatible for projects to increase productivity.
Met my wife on there.  Top match (94%).
The Proof JPG loaded from left to right in three different vertical segments.   Never seen something loading like that. 
