Hi Laszlo!  Thanks for doing this AmA.   What would your advice be to a developer in their 40s who is interested in working for a company like Google, but concerned that they might be thought too old to be a good fit? 
Damn, I'm a great fan of yours and saw on Linkedin that you would do an AMA and now I don't have a great question prepared but I will still try.  As I work in HR in Germany, what do you think generally about HR in Europe if you even look over the ocean?
I really enjoyed your book!  With many other companies following your lead in hiring for cultural fit ("Googleyness," in your case), how would you suggest a candidate demonstrate that trait in an interview setting? Should they lean towards being more relaxed rather than formal, or do your interviewers have controls in place to compensate for the formality of interviews in general?
Laszlo- Thanks for Work Rules. Amazed by the book and the learnings in it. One of the challenges Google faces is as it shift into new domains (telecom GoogleFi). How do you see existing talent from such large organizations adapting to Google when you hire them? A related question- Google is now becoming like multiple mini googles emerging out of different diverse businesses , what challenges you see with it in future?  
How much of the application processing process is automated and how much of it is manual? 
Hi Laszlo. I follow you on LinkedIn and read your articles and I am actually kind of a career fanatic, as weird as other people I know think that is.  My question for you is.. What would you say to people who are starting out in their career, love to do their job, and want to do big things with big ideas and rise up in the ranks to become a leader? How did you do it, and what advice would you give to people in that position? Thanks!
What type of organizations does Google work with to help bring diversity to their workforce? Are you involved with any like COSD (Career Opportunities for Students with Disabilities)? http://www.cosdonline.org/  (BTW love your book!)
What is the criteria to work at Google as a software engineer/developer? Also, what is like to deal with people as an SVP? Laslty, how does google cope with competition, such as Microsoft?  It's pretty nice to meet you, considering I enjoy many google things, especially android development, and seeing a people person in google diversifies everything.
Hi Laszlo - excellent actionable book. I'm about half way through, and actually had a question while reading today.....  You state that google has four main employee levels: individual contributor, manager, director, and VP.   What is a good ratio for each level as a % of the total employee count. What does a top heavy company look like?   Thanks for your help!
How would you recommend attorneys market themselves to work in industries outside of law at a place like Google?    The legal market is really saturated and attorneys who don't make it to big law often end up scraping by with an enormous amount of student debt.  They're hard working, but often it seems employers view them as employees who would leave immediately to go practice law or something.
Google hires people of every age ... our oldest Googler is over 80!  Best advice is to make clear the impact of your work.  Basically, for all your accomplishments use the format "accomplished X by doing Y as measured by Z."  Please apply!
What is the best question for separating productive people from the slackers?
Hello Mr. Bock,   In your mind what is the single most important feature Google is looking for when hiring? Looking forward to reading your book! 
Laszlo, Thanks for doing this. I'm going to be starting my MBA this fall with an emphasis in OB/HR. I'm highly interested in creating optimal work environments/cultures. What advice would you have for someone in my shoes looking to grow his/her career?
Thanks!!! Some of my best friends are HR people in Europe.  :)   Mainly, keep pushing to use data to make good decisions.  Too much of HR and management is about our gut instead of what we can prove.
Hi Laszlo, this is Anjali from India. Thank you so much for this opportunity to interact with you. I am a passionate recruiter and love my work. What according to you a NextGen Recruiter does to make a difference? Would be keen to get your thoughts on this. 
Hi Laszlo! I am really enjoying your book (currently on page 277). I work at a large university with a solid mission but no mechanism to bring people from different units together to development/innovate. Therefore, all stellar mid-career professionals leave when they hit their glass ceiling. I am a career counselor (currently hitting the glass ceiling) and am developing a pitch to spearhead a "people and team development" initiative. I'm writing my own job description, outlining key programs (a lot of inspiration from Work Rules) but am trying to get this started WITHOUT the data that proves we need this. Everyone knows it, but there's no data. What would you recommend would push my proposition to the YES pile without spending a year gathering data?
Oh boy, I can't believe Laszlo Bock answered me. I will tell all my colleagues tomorrow.  Thanks for your answer, I would love some more data input here.
At a lot of places "cultural fit" is about "is this candidate like me."  At Google, it's a bit different - we want people who bring something new to the mix.  And we specifically care about conscientiousness (work to completion, think like an owner, etc.) and intellectual humility (not regular humility - just the ability to admit you're wrong).  So, for Google, don't worry about relaxed vs. formal.  Just don't wear a suit.  :)
Hi, Laszlo,  Thank you for this opportunity!   Question: What advice do you have for an accounting student from a California State School to compete in the tech workforce with college grads from more prestigious schools like Stanford, Berkeley, and Northwestern?  Thank you! Wish we could meet one day!
Hi Laszlo, thanks for making time for us today!  Google has been very effective at scaling quickly. My company is attempting to scale right now but we're running into issues with people being territorial and not sharing their knowledge. What advice would you have for someone who is worried that the new talent is going to usurp their long-standing authority?
Hi Laszlo, thank you bringing the conversation back to people in this world of ever evolving technology.  As a career talent acquisition professional, my question surrounds recruitment and its sustainability as a people run operation.  Do you feel that an individual that desires to start a search firm or recruiting firm still has a place in the world of talent acquisition or has technology replaced this profession?  Looking forward to reading your book!
I'm a computer scientist who helps companies to understand behaviour and tap into it using technology.   What would you say is the biggest problem that HR managers have these days which they could solve with tech, but aren't solving it?
I imagine culture as a continuum, not an absolute.  Even when I joined Google in '06 there was a subtle but real difference between the sales and engineering cultures.  For example, in eng you could (and still can) nominate yourself for promotion - not so in sales (though I'd love to change that).  For talent from large orgs, it's about finding the people who are far enough on the continuum that they'll thrive here.  But basically, I think people in general prefer a more open and free environment, so most people coming across seem happier.  
Hi Laszlo! I just recently became a huge fan. You're awesome! Thank you for doing this.  My question: What do you see as the Holy Grail of HR? To elaborate - what is the number one objective an aspiring HR guru might want to seek? THE thing that would make a huge impact in the field of HR that we still haven't discovered, built or thought of.  By the way my background is in psychology - going for an MBA. I love it how you get the importance of actual valid data for example in recruiting. You're an example for all of us!
[deleted]
Hi Laszlo, I am a big fan of your. I have been reading your posts and watching your videos. Looking forward to reading your book and may be meeting you someday as a Google employee. You have mentioned multiple times that Googles looks for cognitive ability, emergent leadership, humility, ownership and expertise in candidates during interview process. I have had an interview with Google where I was asked mostly technical questions. Can you please explain how all the components are judged through technical questions? I was provided a feedback that I am good fit for the company, but not for the role. I had read that Google trains people once they are good fit for the company. Is that true? Thanks 
It's all manual.  We've got a proprietary applicant tracking system, but we have something we like to call "human beings" that look at every one of the applications we get.  We have used some testing and scoring to screen people in, on occasion, but only to make sure we were avoiding false negatives.  
Hey Laszlo,  We're living in an interesting time where companies are beginning to treat their employees well. That being said, there's a fine line between being treated well and being spoiled. What are your thoughts on this? Giving great perks isn't as simple as just stocking candy; companies need to be mindful and strategic in the types of perks they launch on how they execute them.
Hi Laszlo, thanks for doing this AMA! With that being said what is your advice for college students &amp; recent college grads in finding a job/internship and standing out from the competition? Also what was the strangest interview you have ever had?  Thanks!
As a candidate I once totally blew an interview and when I could ask questions, I asked the interview, "what are your core values?"  He said, "Always go above and beyond, because then they have no choice but to reward you."  Trite, perhaps, but he recognized the implict and unfair power dynamic in many workplaces.  So, go above and beyond, every time.  It's the one thing you can control.  Eventually, it will be recognized, either by your current employer or by the one who recruits you away.
I'm blown away by what I've read in Work Rules. Any chance Google will offer HR/people management as a service to startups in the future? ;)
[deleted]
Hello Mr. Bock.  Thanks for this opportunity to pick your brain.  The book was great.  I will be speaking with Ms. Rebecca Cotton about some of her insight.  Any recommendation on a good ice breaker with her?
[deleted]
We'll check COSD out - thanks for the suggestion!  We partner with over 100 diversity-related organizations around the world.  We've learned a lot, hired a lot, and with any luck helped a bit!
Also, when will Google start interviewing for summer 2016 MBA internships? Do you ever bring people in for HR internships?
What is Google doing to get more women in for interviews in the near term? I hear about lots of initiatives for girls, etc. out in the community, but not a word about actually hiring more women now.
I learned from him every day (and still do) ... some about persistence, some about solving problems, some about giving, and some about how to escape from a brutal chokehold.  Biggest lesson: your brother is your best friend, no matter what.
Thank you! 
That's actually nice to know. However, you mentioned of 3 million applications a year. That means 62,500 applications per week and in our 5 day weeks, 12,500 a day. Keep it 10,000. ALL OF THOSE MANUAL?!?! 
Hi Mr. Bock,  I am currently a freshman in college studying Human Resource Management. What is the best piece of advice you can offer to me on success in the field of HR?
Wow - lot of questions!  For SWE/dev, have a broad fundamental understanding of CS so that you can work across many products throughout your career.  
[deleted]
Startups operate at an aggressively fast pace...feels like strategy and focus shift quarterly if not monthly. What's the best way to hold employees accountable, keep them engaged and provide career growth opportunities when you can barely get your head out of water?
Great question and even better handle!    Depends on what you're trying to achieve and the kind of environment you want.  For an open, creative org, the less top management you have, the better.  We for years had a rule to keep things flat by mandating that a manager had to have a minimum of 7 direct reports to be a manager ... the 1 person managing 2 people managing 2 people stacks kill you.   
Lazlo, thank you for this AmA. I'm currently a college student who is hoping to work with Google after I graduate. I've had the opportunity to network with many Googlers over time, but when I've asked for resume tips, I've gotten different opinions from each on one area: education.  On a "Googly" resume, where should Education go, and what should be included in that section? I had one Googler tell me that Education doesn't matter as much as projects, and to keep it down to institution, degree, and dates of attendance, and to put the section last. Another told me to put it first and foremost and make it as detailed as possible, with GPA and everything.  So, coming from HR, what do you see as the importance of education on a resume and, if you are willing to share, what are your tips? Thank you very much.
I have one more question that I should've added: for those that are not really motivated, would reading your book, perhaps, give them motivation in some sense? Thanks for the reply though.  Edit: changed stuff
[deleted]
Hi Laszlo, thanks for this opportunity! I have the following question: Why Google does not have any internship/fellowship opportunities for Graduate students interested in researching Google products? I've numerously contacted Google with that question. I work on my Master Thesis and being immersed in Google environment would make my work so much more meaningful. Thanks!
For most employers, it's tough because they look for specialized expertise.  In my experience most people switching fields take a step back / pay cut.  That said, look for something that's as adjacent as possible (e.g., policy, communications) and work from there.  You can describe a lot of your legal experiences in ways that also highlight skills that are relevant to those fields.  For Google, apply for any job that looks good.  We hire based on our assessment of problem solving, leadership, etc and care way, way less about what field you're coming from.  Hope that helps!
Google Ventures (our VC arm) does that a bit for their portfolio companies.  We're also more generally working to open source what we're doing ... there's an example here: http://www.google.com/events/rework/  But as a business ... unlikely.  Too much work to do here at Google!
[deleted]
Hi, Mr. Bock. I'm about 1/3 of the way through your book and loving it. My question is, how do you find the right balance in terms of suggestions for improvement to candidates that you're rejecting? I understand that you can't say "we didn't hire you because X" because that might imply "if you learn X we WILL hire you". But on the other hand, if you just give a general "Improve your skills and try again in a year" then the candidate doesn't know how to best spend their time preparing for the next attempt. Thanks!
Hi Laszlo!  What role do you think languages (not the computer ones) play in today's corporate world? Do other languages become irrelevant due to the dominance of English or is there any value to learning new languages?   Thank you for doing this AMA!  
I think it is amazing that Google takes that time to individually address each application.  I know when I received a rejection letter that was actually signed by a real person (I know I checked them out on LinkedIn) I was very impressed, it just inspired me to push to be my best so the next letter wouldn't be a rejection letter
I have a friend that was given a high tech job that was based on his experience instead of having a degree.  While this is somewhat a rarity, How does one change management's perceptions that having a degree is absolutely necessary to do the actual job?
General cognitive ability (problem solving, ability to learn and integrate new information).  If you've got that, you can be taught and/or figure out a lot of other things.  Assessing GCA is also the 2nd-most predictive thing you can look for when hiring, according to decades of academic research on this.  (#1 is a work sample test, but that's a much harder thing to engineer.)
I am in the middle of reading your book and am really fascinated by how much google really involves their teams in all of their processes. It really shows that no matter how large your organization is, it can be done. I currently recruit for a growing retail operation and a lot of my performance is measured on industry standard days to fill ratios.  What do you feel is the most accurate/fair way to measure a Recruiter's performance? 
[deleted]
There's no best question - it's all about drilling down into the answer and verifying that the person actually did the work.  The attribute underpinning productivity vs slacking is conscientiousness, which you can assess with structured interview questions.  Also, references can actually help on this one - if the person isn't reported to be in the top 10%, move on.
I hope so!
Haha good answer. You have a sense of humour for sure. I'm glad google picked you!
1. Take statistics and/or operations.  Most people in OB/HR (most people with MBAs, in fact) don't have a deep background in these areas, but they are essential for separating reality from opinion. 2. Get exposed to lots of cultures - take tours, interview classmates, try a stint in consulting.  It's important to really feel the difference yourself because you'll be a more compelling and credible advocate later
Hi Laszlo, What is Google doing to promote more female in leadership positions and attract more female in technical roles?
This is super valuable! Great to have comparable metric to bring back to my organization. Thanks!
Thanks for your book and really humbling to know that you are contributing the proceeds to non-profit. What are some data points and signals that the hiring committee evaluates in addition to interview performance scores ? 
"I choose a lazy person to do a hard job. Because a lazy person will find an easy way to do it."~Bill Gates
Hey Laszlo, thanks for doing this! I'm a current Pomona junior and I'll be interning at Google this summer as a SWE intern. As I start searching for full-time, I'm debating between going into a software development job and consulting job since I ultimately want to work in management at a tech company. Knowing that you started at McKinsey after you graduated, do you have any tips for how to make a decision?
Laszlo, I am a TVC (vendor, in this case) with Google, and currently work with logistics. I've made some great contacts within the company, working directly with the engineering teams in MTV.  I've been literally dreaming of working for Google for years, as I live in a small town with a growing Google data center. I'm afraid that while I'm doing great work for the company, my focus on supply chain and logistics limits my ability to organically move into a position with hardware operations, which has been my flavor of choice with regards to career path.  What suggestions do you have for a contractor struggling to find ways to make the leap toward full time employment with the company, given that there may be some prickly politics with such an attempt?  Thanks for your time!
Hello Laszlo, I have been following your posts on linkedin and found them to be very insightful and inspiring. Just saw your update of AMA.  I have been a LAMP developer throughout my career spanning about 10 years. Now I am making a career shift to be a ScrumMaster. Though, there are number of open positions for ScrumMaster but they come along with technology tag like Java/.NET ScrumMaster. And, as you must be aware that the role of ScrumMaster is not technology oriented.   My question to you is how the Hiring Manager should be conveyed that a person who has sound understanding of Scrum/Agile implementation is fit to be a ScrumMaster, irrespective of his/her technological background?
I know Google is all about analytics. What 3 little analytics lessons can smaller companies implement to help them hire great people and develop their current employees?
I'm powerless without data!    j/k  ... actually, you can still test things without data.  Find the most friendly, supportive, hospitable place to try your program.  It might not be the entire university, but you might get three departments to work together.  Start small, show success, and build from there.  If what you're doing works, others will see the success and (a) try to partner/emulate and/or (b) be jealous/try to block you.  Spend more time with the (a) folks.  And that then creates the "data" for future attempts.
In my opinion (mid-career software guy) it depends on whose resume it is. If I interviewed you, a college student, I'd want to know about your coursework, GPA, projects, technologies used, etc. Maybe not all of that on the resume, but certainly I'd ask about it in the interview. But I'd say it should go at the top, since that's what you're doing now. But if I were interviewing someone who had been out of school for 15 years, then college is ancient history. What has he/she done lately? For myself...I'm full-time employed but doing a master's degree part time. So I'm not really sure if I'd do: job A, B, C, D; master's, bachelor's...or both degrees then work history, or maaaaybe master's, current job, past jobs, bachelor's. The latter seems a bit incongruent, though. 
Hi Laszlo!  I saw you at Talent Connect '14.  I'm in TA for an SF-based video game developer.    What advice for a career transition can you give to a current recruiter whose aptitude and interests lie in people ops? 
GREAT question.  Most employers still - in error - care about where you went to school, even though that doesn't predict success.  I spoke to the head of an investment bank recently who said the hires they make from state schools do better than the ones from top tier (full disclosure: he was comparing hiring the top students at the former to average from the latter).  So, write a better resume.  Not sure the decorum on reddit but I posted a bunch of articles about this on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/today/post/author/posts.  Then highlight specific coursework that differentiates you (honors, hard classes, etc.).  
[deleted]
What was the most innovated application that came across your desk that you can remember?
Yes, absolutely.   Maybe less so in 10 years.  Depends on how the tech evolves.  But there will always be need for great recruiters who know how to cultivate someone over time and find a candidate on that one day they're open to recruitment.
Very impressive that Google receives 3 million job apps/year but candidly I have had numerous well qualified friends/colleagues apply for specific positions and never receive more than an acknowledgement email as a response - disappointing that the experience isn't more personalized - any plans to improve that at Google ? I could think of many other areas of a large enterprise that handles that volume very effectively (marketing, sales, etc.)
Better matching of people and jobs.  Resumes are a bad signal.  Companies don't know what predicts success.  People are bad at interviewing.  Tech could go a LONG way to solving this.
I've shared over the years what I've heard is a German military concept that you can divide soldiers (employees) along two axes -- smart/stupid and active/lazy, giving you four quadrants. The concept/joke is that you make the smart/active people into commanders, the dumb/lazy people into grunts, the smart/lazy people into staff officers because they'll find the easiest and most efficient way to get things done and you eliminate the dumb/active people from the organization whenever possible, since they're the ones who usually cause issues by charging off in the wrong direction.  I know this model is super-simplistic and not really useful in an HR sense, but do you have any similar mental tools you use for breaking people down by personality into appropriate job functions?
Hi Lazlo! I'm a big fan of your work and am currently reading your book! I am currently a student aspiring to make the HR system in Asian countries such as Japan as efficient and high quality like Google. What do you think generally about the HR system in countries such as Japan?  Thanks! 
[deleted]
Great to hear, a 10 year window to start my own business is better than a 1 year window... thank you again and have a great day!
Hi Laszlo, I'm a huge fan of your LinkedIn posts, and I can't wait to read your new book! I'm a big believer that we spend so much time, energy, and passion on our jobs, that it would be a shame for it to be boring and draining.   A couple of friends and I have started a project to look at how we can use data collected during the recruiting/interview process, to better match the right people to the right jobs. What are your thoughts on the type of data we need to be collecting? Do you feel like this is a needed solution in the market place?   Thank you!
Hello Mr. Bock, are there any particular qualities that you look for in an applicant when their degree is in something more liberal arts oriented (sociology, history, etc...) rather than in technology or business?  
On this one, it helps to be top down to set the tone.  Either your top folks want an open company where everyone contributes (and increases the odds of success) or they want to be just like everyone else and the most talented people will leave.  So, make clear that being territorial is not cool.  When you see the behavior, call people on it, but assume good intent (maybe they were protecting some super confidential info or something ... who knows?).  If the "information hoarders" don't open up, they should exit.  Or the new talent will.    Might sound harsh, but whether you are open or not is a major culture-shaper.  And toxic people have a disproportionately bad impact on the environment.
[deleted]
I wanted to share that I have applied 10-10-10 principle in my career, so first 8 years have done HR tech (development, presales,sales, business development ), then HR Consulting 3 years, I now have identified my strengths as Change management and Process (though have breadth of experience ), I was wondering if my profile would ever be considered by Google, given your stated aversion to HR consulting? (though I learnt most of team management and program management there).  
Hi Lazlo! I am an incredible fan of you and your EXTRAORDINARY work! Now, I know Google is a dog friendly work space but, to get to know you more, are you a dog person or a cat person? And is there any interest in hiring a dog trainer for the google compound for the Dooglers (Google Dogs)? Thank you for being an outstanding rolemodel!
Hey Laszlo, thanks for jumping in. I'm a 34 year old looking change fields, and looking at several options.  1. Does Google ever/often hire from outside fields? Or are you at the size/stature you don't bother?  2. Any tips for making sure I get the most of a new (for me), competitive field?  Personally, I worry the last 16 years of my career for naught, and I'm inherently going to start at the bottom of every field. Looking at traditional media (TV, film) or even games, that's what it seems is expected of me. And I don't care for it. But I'm looking for a change.
Hi Laszlo, I've been trying to get an interview with you for my Forbes book on gender. I know you're busy and spoke at my alma mater LSE.  What is the top piece(s) of advice you would give to companies that want to attract and advance high-potential women? What's worked well at Google?  Thank you!
We're doing more than we ever have, but still not as much as we hope to.  We've got great partnerships with various groups like Anita Borg and have launched programs like CS First and Made with Code.  And our recruiters have been VERY busy looking, especially on the engineering side.  We've also increased the number of schools we recruit from (as we have almost every year), which should make a difference.  We'll republish our diversity and representation statistics this summer, so stay tuned for more.  
As a communicator, we're far more likely to be in conflict with attorneys than consider them professionally "adjacent." The stereotype is that they never want to say *anything* in crisis situations, they're trained to use obfuscatory language rather than plain English, they're instinctively adversarial and they continue arguing until told to stop by competent authority.
Hi Laszlo -- thanks for doing this! :)   I worked at Google, and now work at a small start-up running HR/recruiting operations. I love smaller environments because of the ability to make an impact, strategize, and build an organization from the ground up.   My question is - how do you build a great company culture when the co-founders/management do not have the same values or find the importance of it (ex: they are too focused on engineering/product, and people are secondary)? They say that culture starts from top-down, so in my situation, do you have any recommendations on how I should approach this bottom-up? Since my two years at this start-up, I've tried to change the culture (recommending exit interviews, all-hands, more recognition awards, etc), but all my ideas have been shot down on trying to improve. We've lost half of our organization (though management doesn't seem concerned), and I'm trying to see what I can do to piece it back together. Please advise! 
[deleted]
Hi Laszlo, what would be the first thing you would advise government organisations if they want to make a start with improving HR by using data?  
Laszlo, big fan of your articles &amp; research. As a Gen Y Talent Management practitioner from a small med company - how can I have the most impact on engagement and empowerment with limited resources?
[deleted]
Hi - similar to lborel's question ... only thing I'd add is that we have a number of programs that help advance and retain women in technical areas (e.g., nudges to self-nominate for promotion, better leave and return programs).  We have mentorship/sponsorship programs, various employee resource groups focused on building community, etc.  And our work on unconscious bias is a very big part of this -- it's not right to put the onus on groups that are underrepresented to make all the changes -- we all need to get better at this.  More here: http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2014/09/you-dont-know-what-you-dont-know-how.html  Still lots to do .... 
Nominate yourself for promotion?, Under what conditions, may I know ?
1. Hire objectively (eg, have a hiring committee make the decision, not the manager; define job attributes up front and actually interview for them) 2. Get rid of toxic people fast - even if it's expensive. 3. Check out our Project Oxygen work - it's a checklist that automatically improves manager quality. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/03/13/business/13hire.html
I have looked at Anita Borg, CS First, and Made with Code, and none of those programs mention anything about Google recruiting women.
I'm short on time here, but send me an email.  Happy to help.
I too am a TVC and would like to hear some suggestions from Laszlo on how to transition into employee roles, especially in ways that differ from the usual hiring process.
[deleted]
Totally agree.  It's important to have a rationale for the perks, explain the rationale to employees, and when things change be willing to get rid of perks.  We used to give $5k to Googlers who bought hybrid cars.  Then prices dropped and the cars became less "risky" and we got rid of it.  Not popular, but the right thing.
Hi Laszlo! I have recently started reading your book! I do have a quick question: I studied Economics in a state university and I've worked in Japan as an accountant. I've returned to the states and I have began having a deep interest in software development. I've been told that if I do not have a degree in CS then I just cannot apply to Google or anywhere else. Is this the case? Any advice you can give me? I currently work as a TVC.
Thank you, I really appreciate you answering. I have found when talking with HR managers that they are often quite reluctant to accept they have cognitive biases. In your experience, what's a good way to let them accept this?
Check out my LinkedIn posts (in another question) on how to write your resume and interview - those are the biggest things you can do.  Beyond that, as you network ask people for advice, not jobs.  People don't often have jobs to give, but we all love giving advice.  [sic]  Strangest interview: on an audition I was asked if I'd be willing to show my butt on camera.  I was not, and didn't get the gig.  I do not regret my decision.
What is the easiest way to change career paths midway through your career without having to start over?
Ask her about the Career Guru program she started ... and why she made me downplay the fact that she really did create it so that the credit could be shared.  :)
Any inside tip or advice how to breakthrough a position with Google X Life Sciences for Scientists from academic settings? 
Thanks a ton. I'm currently working for a firm that specializes in data-rich 360 assessments. It's definitely opened my eyes and I'll be sure to put statistics and operations courses on my radar! Thanks again!
My Holy Grail is solving unemployment.  I think there's an information asymmetry between individuals and employers that is solvable.  And it would do a ton of good for the world.  I suspect someone is out there working on it ... 
Get exposure in compensation or analytics - important to differentiate yourself in the labor marketplace and most HR people don't rotate through those fields.    Just ran out of time ... thanks for the love!!!!!
How important is a physical presence in Silicon Valley for a company wanting to be competitive in hiring engineering talent?   Thank you for doing this AMA!
Thank you very much, Laszlo; that's great to hear, especially for all of us Cal State grads! I really appreciate the link, too. Your posts are incredibly informative and I continually pass it along to my classmates. 
Thanks so much! Currently my team and I are competing in the GOMC (Google Online Marketing Challenge) this semester and learning alot about Adwords. That must of been one weird interview lol.
Lazlo, @omarkaltenberg Here, Also going to the point, Web-services is not even close to Telecom Services or Telecom applications, Is not just a culture change, do you agree?
Will do. Much appreciated!
Thank you for your response ! Unfortunately unconscious bias is still prevalent. People need to think and be more self conscious to overcome bias...
 Hi Lazlo Thanks for doing this AMA! Given the traditional recruitment process is so bad at predicting future performance of candidates, and the rapid evolution of tech - is there a case for taking the human out of recruitment all together? If you were to keep humans in just one part of the process - what would it be? Eva, science major in Talent Acquisition - loving where the industry is going ;-)
Dear Mr Bock, I'm loving the LinkedIn updates over the past 2 or 3 weeks, thank you.  Out of interest, where do you think most multi national corporations could be better when it comes to HR?  Is it employee engagement, incentivisation, training and development?  Do they perhaps veer too strongly towards external recruitment rather than internal progression?  How do you prevent employee churn at Google (other than free food and above market salaries)?
Hi Laszlo!   What is the strangest/greatest length you've gone to to close a candidate?
[deleted]
I'll pass that along. Thanks!
[deleted]
Laszlo, @omarkaltenberg again : Why not an IQ test ? or the equivalent to GMAT with steroids developed inside Google ? previous bosses can confirm achievements.
I have written to you personally as well as your staff and applied for several positions within Google. How do I get in? How can I be noticed in such a large crowd?
Dear Mr. Bock, how do you stay a "founder" in an organization, if the people above you are not, and they are not willing to change their attitude, thus practically making decisions annoying you, who wants to stay a founder. Also how do you "relight" passion in an organization, if everyone seem to lost their hope in a better working place? For me it seems based upon your book, that you can hardly create a revolution in a "sick" firm by yourself. Thanks,
Hi Laszlo!  Google just recently finalized [expansion plans](http://www.denverpost.com/business/ci_27063628/google-build-new-boulder-campus-room-1-500) in Boulder, CO.  Do you have a roadmap yet of the types of positions you'll be opening here? I'd love to be in a position to apply when the time comes.  I'm a Boulder resident, work in tech, and would love to be a Googler.  My primary background is business development for enterprise software systems, but have some light comp sci and IT project management skills as well.  While I've got the time, I'd love to be able to improve and expand my skill set to be in line with the types of positions that will be created.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Laszlo,   What is the best way for a Sales Rep to get your attention by email and phone?
I'm sure you've read about it, but LinkedIn's Economic Graph is a step in the right direction.  I'm on the talent acquisition ops team at LinkedIn - our goal is to have the recruiting process rely more on data (whether its ATS or profiles). I'm a big fan of your work at Google and your book!
Laszlo, I just bought your book and included in my pitch deck. Reason is we built an advanced recruiting tool for sourcing passive IT Talent. The website is www.techhiring.com. We could set a product demo for you anytime, 4M passive candidates, 3M more than linkedin Dave Hite www.techhiring.com
[deleted]
Hi Laszlo, I am a fresh greencard lottery winner immigrant from Hungary, an IT engineer experienced in operations in multinational environment, project management, service management, but I have an own project in home automation that I do for more that 20 years, now with clear picture how the systems should build up IMHO. I think Google would be the right workplace to have opportunity to make impact to the world, changing the fundamental home electronics, to make possible open source systems to home automation. Is there a way to talk about this with appropriate Google person to maybe get a chance to work for Google or it should be only by applying to positions I have professional work experience with? Thanks in advance! Ambrus
Remember that time that new Google employee did an AMA and got fired the same day? Did you hire that guy? 
I'm late, but I hope you spare some time to answer my questions.  1. On an average day with the understanding that no day is typical, what are some things you actually do on a daily basis? 2. How did you get hired by Google and what was your first position? 3. What was your favorite discovery while writing the book? 4. What surprised you the most while writing the book? 5. Any advice for someone who specializes in what you do but has difficulty finding jobs in any industry with that specialty? Despite a Master's and 5 years of experience, no one seems to want someone like that.
Hi Laszlo, I find the topic of your book fascinating. I have been working in Investment Banking for a few years in Peru (Im a Peruvian national) but Im very interested in this area as I graduated in Economics and find common ground in the statistical methodology. Are you aware of any companies present in Peru that use this approach towards HR?  By the way I left my information in the google careers site in case you open any potions in your Peru office! Thank you!
[deleted]
Yes - please summarize that conversation and send it to /u/frizzy_fry_fro and myself (also a TVC, haha)
I see you have left for the day, but maybe you will answer.  I'm someone who loves google as a customer. The values seem there and that is important to me. I keep hearing stories that it would be really hard to start a great career with Google if I graduated from an online college.  What is you personal opinion on that? I'm not talking about shady diploma mills, but the real ones where students like myself have to put in just as much hard work and studying (if not more so). I know it sounds silly to have a focus on wanting to join google but it's what I want to do with my life.
Why would Google want to hire somebody who graduated bottom of the class or did not perform during internship? Top students from law schools work in Big Law and make more money than most Google employees. 
Why does the recruiting process take that long at Google? I have been in what is a very selective process for more than two months, I had multiple interviews, submitted recommendations, and went through hiring committee successfully. 2 Months later I received an offer, but it was re-submitted to another committee since the salary was not on par with benchmarks and expectations. :(  Still on wait to see final outcome.  
Hi Lazlo, just out of curiosity, did you self-publish the book or go down the traditional route?
Big fan of you and Google in general (best evil empire ever!)  You might be interested in this recent article by Lina Nilsson at the Blum Center for Developing Economies at Berkeley on attracting more women to engineering by making the  content of the work more societally meaningful: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/27/opinion/how-to-attract-female-engineers.html?_r=0
I first opened your book in a book store. I decided to sit down to read one chapter. It ended up being almost half of the book. Based on the inferences I made, the main package of benefits is still designed following the classical   format. Why not take the chance to do better?
How long did it take you to write the theme song for Scrubs?
'Love your book Laszlo!! If you would had to identify one question candidates struggle most during the final interview ( generalization), which one would it be and why? 
What you're saying would be inherently contradictory. You can't simultaneously say nothing while also saying things that are adversarial. If you're being adversarial, then you're saying something. If you're saying nothing, then your language is neutral and vague.
I am far too late it seems but i will try anyway. I am currently a psychology major aspiring to become an industrial-organizational psychologist. As an HR specialist what is your view of IO psychology and io psychologists in the workplace? Do they have distinct advantages over HR specialists?
So... OKCupid meets Monster. I'd think about making a prototype but I can already tell that the hiring people would have to go through great lengths to fill out a lot of information describing what the job entails, and I can't say if they'd do it.
And with that, I'm getting out of bed!!
[deleted]
&gt; You can't simultaneously say nothing while also saying things that are adversarial.  Of course you can. You can advocate saying nothing externally, while being adversarial in the internal discussions in which communications strategy is being formed.
Why would you assume attorneys are adversarial to their own coworkers? Adversarial stuff is reserved for the opposing party. 
Oh man, many of the law firm marketing committee meetings I've sat in would suggest otherwise.
I've sat in law firm meetings too and I haven't experienced what you've described. The folks at your place are adversarial because they're assholes, not because they're attorneys. 
An easy way of doing this would be to find the closest proxy for the position you are hiring for on a website like ONET and using that as a base for which tasks are involved. Hiring managers could modify the description as necessary. It would be most challenging for "new" or "non-traditional" positions.
But that still doesn't make for a good matching. I was thinking of a website that presents candidates with some tests, e.g. like those mini-games from apps like Elevate, to profile their skills, e.g. John Doe is good at *sorting a lot of information*, but bad at *reading real fast*, etc.   HR people would have to break down the positions into these measurable skills e.g. new position for business analyst requires *fast reading with good comprehension*, and *trend prediction* (suppose it could be measured by Raven's matrices).   Then the system could match the best candidates with the best skills for the job. A candidate would greatly increase their opportunities of being hired into a nice job by taking as many quizzes as possible, and HR would get the best candidates for the job by being as descriptive of it as possible.   Coding is the easy part, I don't think this is a tech issue as Bock suggested. This would massively depend on HR's willingness and ability to *break down* jobs into skills, as well as psychologists developing processes to measure those skills.
I could see it as much less of a burden on the employer's part if they intend on hiring multiple candidates for these positions. ONET does give you a decent starting point by providing abilities required to be successful in positions (e.g., oral expression, written communication), and skills (e.g., active listening). I would envision that this service would be most successful if there was a low-cost consulting arm that could help industries perform job analyses based on organizational documentation and (at higher cost) workplace observation when necessary.   Haha - coding would be the hardest part in my opinion, but that's likely because of my background!
Just to add one more point: my organizations are very willing to break their positions down into tasks, competencies, skills etc. Doing so is referred to as job analysis or competency modeling by Industrial-Organizational psychologists (not familiar with your background, so apologies if you know this already). These techniques serve as a starting point for developing many important personnel-related policies (e.g., selection, performance management, training, etc.). Larger organizations benefit the most from this when they have many positions of a similar nature because the cost of the job analysis is spread over multiple positions. The trick is articulating the value of breaking these positions down into its constituent parts. The more that a service such as the one we are discussing can get ahead by doing this FOR the client, the more useful it would be. Customization is key, but oftentimes organizations like picking things off the shelf because it is more economical. 
I'd be surprised if this hasn't been pursued more ambitiously. If profiling could be broken down into key indicators, processes be created to measure them, and then have a system apply them massively to a population, then the success of a hiring process can become repeatable. This data can be integrated and commodified, then sold to other entities wishing to achieve a similar level of efficiency.   If these assumptions are correct, then your notion of low-cost vs. high-cost consulting becomes almost irrelevant. Rather, high costs should be acceptable to produce the best profiling which in turn can give the most resell value for the resulting process that can find the right people.
Developing valid and reliable processes to measure different factors of human ability and behavior are high cost no matter which way you look at it. High quality measure validation is not a cheap process. I differentiate between high-cost vs. low-cost consulting because in my experience small to medium-sized enterprises are typically not willing to spend large amounts of money to invest in processes such as these. In most organizations the hiring/selection process is in the stone age.  Again, you assume that these tests can be applied to a massive population. Many organizations do not have a massive population to recruit from. This is why I specified that it would be most cost-efficient in a setting where you have a large number of positions available and a large pool of candidates to recruit from.
You *can* do it any time you like, although you're strongly advised not to do it unless you feel you can make a solid case for why you're operating at the next level. In particular, a case that will be supported by your peers (and ideally your manager).  Source: Googler working in eng.
[deleted]
&lt;joke&gt;I would like to point out the situation above looks like a tree, rather than stacks.&lt;/joke&gt;
