Users, please be wary of proof. You are welcome to ask for more proof if you find it insufficient.   OP, if you need any help, please message the mods [here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fiama&amp;subject=&amp;message=).  Thank you!   *[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.*
How often do you see flashes in your eyes from interstellar radiation? How bright are they? 
Ron, what's your favourite cheese? 
ZeroG is very expensive, how close is the Neutral Boyancy Lab(swimming pool) or skydiving to weightlessness?
If you could describe your experience in space in one word, what would be?
At night, when you close your eyes to sleep, you see them frequently, and they seem like either flashes or streaks of light. 
Awesome!
Parmesan. 
What is your favorite music to listen to when underwater / in space? 
What has been your best experience? And the worst? 
It's very close but when you turn upside-down in the NBL you feel upside down
[deleted]
[deleted]
I actually asked Earthlings to help me pick the music to listen to in space.  Here's what they came up with: [fragileoasis.org](http://www.fragileoasis.org/blog/2011/8/music-your-space-station/) and here's what I listened to on the launch pad: [fragileoasis.org](http://www.fragileoasis.org/blog/2012/1/we-get-to-carry-each-other/)
Hey Ron, what did you find was more of a rush, escape velocity sitting there just experiencing it, or high G turns in a jet where you pilot it yourself?  Just a question Ive always wondered.
What's one thing an individual can start doing today to help the environment and the planet?
Reddit AMAs!
They're both awesome!
Hi Ron, thanks for doing this AMA!  How does working on the ocean floor compare psychologically to spending time in space?  Do you prepare mentally for each experience in the same way? Or are there differences between the two environments that make for distinct psychological experiences?
Hi Ron, do you think more astronauts should go into politics? (e.g. Campaigning for environment etc.). Thanks! 
Realize that everyone one of us can make a tremendous impact on the environment (either positive or negative) when you look at the effect of our actions over a long time frame.  We have the ability to nudge the trajectory of our global ecosystem. So we need to think carefully about the daily decisions we make.
No, I think more politicians should go to space. 
What do you miss the most from the earth when you're in space? 
Hi Ron, Thank you for doing this AMA. My question is what do you think space travel will be like in the next 200 years? 
In space my best experience was looking at our planet while out on a spacewalk.  The worst was when a piece of space junk almost hit the ISS
Pizza &amp; Beer. In space, you can get a decent cup of space-coffee, but you can't get a cup of decent space-beer. 
I think in a lot less time than that: flying on a spacecraft will be as common as flying on an aircraft is today.
Hi Ron! Just watched PLANETARY and it was an incredibly moving experience! Those beautiful shots of Earth from space made me tear up!  How did you get involved with Planetary Collective, and do you have plans to collaborate more with them?
Which experience was more nerve-wracking? Being in space or the ocean floor for a long period of time? And which was more exciting?
I believe the more people that see our planet from the Orbital Perspective the better off we will all be.
Do you have a favorite space movie?
[deleted]
Thanks for the AMA. On Wikipedia, it said you have had 4 EVAs, how exiting was your first one?
I've been involved with the amazingly talented folks from Planetary Collective since being interviewed for the film Overview https://vimeo.com/55073825.  We do have plans for a follow on to Planetary called Orbital.  If Planetary framed the problem facing our world, Orbital will be the call to action to correct the trajectory of our global society.  The film will be loosely based on my book "The Orbital Perspective" http://orbitalperspective.com/
What do you think the most difficult thing to acclimate to in space was?  What do you do for thrills on Earth?
Ron,   it was great meeting you at OYW 2014 and discussing things with you! :-)  PLANETARY was a wonderful and moving experience, but getting back to space, your record for the longest stay in space will probably be broken soon, but what do you think about the real "longer" term, do you think we'll have long-term habitats within our lifetime? 
Both experiences had moments that were stressful and moments that were awe-inspiring.  Both were extremely exciting in their own way but space, I believe, was more unique and different than anything else I had ever experienced
Apollo 13. Because of the realism, the heroism, and the beauty of the cinematography. 
Hi Ron! I'm so super excited that you're doing this! Can you tell me about your involvement with the manna energy foundation? What kinds of ways are they using to bring drinking water to villages in Rwanda? Also, do you believe that our species will need to become interplanetary to survive? 
Whats masturbating like in space?
It was about as exciting as exciting gets but on my 1st spacewalk I had a difficult time fully believing what I was seeing was real.  It was almost as if part of my brain was saying "look at this amazing beautiful experience"  but another part of my brain was saying "Yes, it beautiful but it's not real" It was almost s if I was watching everything unfold before me like I was watching a movie. By my 4th it was like going into my own backyard
What is your opinion of "The Great Filter" as a hypothesis for why we have not discovered extraterrestrial life?  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Filter
Hi Ron -  NASA astronauts are the equivalent of A-list rock stars and actors to some of us. It is incredibly impressive to understand the education, training, qualifications and *patience* the astronaut candidates have.   Where do you see inspiration coming from for the next generations of astronauts? I would say sci-fi, like Star Trek, but want to know what YOU think. 
I don't think anything was particularly hard to acclimate to in space except for maybe sleep.  It took me a few weeks to figure out how to sleep comfortably in space.  Actually on Earth I'm not much of a dare-devil.  I don't do anything inherently dangerous for the thrill except for maybe skiing.
Actually I do not have any longest stay in space record.  Even if I did it would have been broken soon by Scott Kelly and Mikhail Kornienko who are spending a continuous year on the ISS!
That sounds awesome! Gonna check out your book now!
What differences, if any, are there in training to live on the ocean floor to living in space? 
The Manna Energy Foundation is a social enterprise incubator.  The 1st company we launched was Manna Energy ltd. which has collaborated with other organizations to sustainably provide clean water to over 5 million people to date.  We are trying to to this with the long-term benefit of our client communities first and foremost.  As for the 2nd question, we live on a planet of finite resources and therefore we will either need to radically reduce the rate at which we are consuming non-renewable resources or we will have to make use of the unlimited resources available in space.  I think we should do both before leaving our planet is required
Great question I'm not sure I'm the right person to ask.  I can only say where my inspiration came from which was the Moon landings.  I was inspired to become a part of the program to explore our Solar System.  Today my inspiration comes from people who are making positive contributions to our future no mater how big or how small
What felt more remote, space or the ocean floor? Which was scarier?
[deleted]
The true answer to your question is I don't know. We live in a really big universe. So it makes sense that there'd be life. But it's also possible that there's not. 
The big difference is we get to know our neighbors when living and working on the ocean floor. Both have incredible views, both are hostile environments where we need to depend on life support for our survival both involve scientific research - AND both were AWESOME
Both seemed remote:  In space we were completely detached from the only home we ever knew but we could clearly see it from our windows.  On the ocean floor even though we were only 60 feet from the surface, we needed 17 hours to desaturate our bodies before we could return to the surface.  In reality, both were remote.
Could you elaborate? Was there anything you could do about it or did you just have to wait, hoping it wouldn't hit?
Thanks! 
Is there anywhere else extreme you would like to go during your life? Maybe something that wouldn't actually be possible with current technology, but could be in the future?
To what degree do astronauts get privacy while on the ISS?   Does ground control track your movements through the station or location? Can ground control communicate with you at any time, or do they have to call and you answer if you're available?
Normally, since we track all pieces of space junk bigger than a certain size, if a piece will get close to the ISS, we can move the orbit of the space station (raise or lower the altitude). For a reason I don't know this one caught us by surprise.  All we could do was close every hatch on the ISS including the hatch to our Soyuz spacecrafts and wait in our Soyuz until the object passed (it passed within 300 meters).
Wow! I suppose there's always an element of unpredictability when you're in a (relatively) foreign environment. Sounds pretty uncomfortable. Thanks for replying!
I would like to go to: 1 The Moon 2 Mars 3 South Pole 4 Kathmandu in that order
That's the scariest part about scuba diving - if you go deep enough for long enough, you can't simply come straight back to the surface.   Thanks for the reply!
I have heard that you often have cold symptoms for several weeks when in space... Is this true, and how bad are the symptoms?
What should be more researched, oceans or outer space? 
Good choices. I guess you'd need a city break after the extremes of the first 3!
What were you feeling at the launchpad right before liftoff?
[deleted]
The ISS is a very big place during work hours Mission Control only knows where we are if we are in the view of one of the ISS cameras.  We have radio contact nearly continuously and someone will always answer asap when mission control calls. 
Ron, what's your favorite sport? Did you ever watch sports on the ISS?
In space, did you ever feel like humans were insignificant, our problems petty, or (separately) that we all have a lot more in common than we think?  Was your experience in space directly influential in your wanting to get more involved in your current efforts?
Because when you get to space, gravity is no longer pulling the fluid in your body from your head to your feet, most people feel congested due to the fluid shift.  This is something you get used to normally within a few weeks. The "symptoms" are usually mild.
Is it weird to be a huge contributor to American space projects while being of Russian descent? 
Both have tremendous unknowns and can provide benefits for our world. Both should be explored. 
What am I getting myself into?
American Football.  We not only watched sports sometimes we played them.
What do you guys do for fun up there in the great beyond?
Thanks for answering!
Thanks for the response!
Thanks for doing another AMA! My son is very interested in everything that has to do with space. He is only 8 but has big dreams! How did you begin your education post high school? 
I never felt that humans were insignificant. On the contrary I felt deeply interconnected with everyone on the planet.  So much so that I was inspired to write the book "The Orbital Perspective".  The Orbital Perspective is a call to action to shift our perspective from looking at things as they affect us locally, in the short term, to how they affect us globally over the long-term. Its a shift from looking at the next election campaign or quarterly report to looking at the 20-year plan and beyond.  Its the acknowledgement that each and every one of us is ridding through the Universe together on this spaceship that we call Earth, that we are all interconnected and family.  Its the understanding that there are no passengers on Spaceship Earth only crewmates and as crewmates we have a responsibility to mind the ship and take care of our fellow crewmates.  Its the acknowledgment of the sobering contradiction we see when we view our planet from space between the amazing beauty of our Earth and the unfortunate realities of life on our planet for a significant number of its inhabitants. Its the firm belief that nothing is impossiblethat it is within our power to eliminate the suffering and conflict that exist on our planet and that we do not have to accept the status quo. Above all else, the orbital perspective is the acknowledgement that we need each other. The days are long gone where we can affect the type of change thats required by adhering to the old way of doing things or having a go it alone attitude.   
When doing your spacewalks, did you ever just look straight out into space?  What did you think?  How did it feel?
[deleted]
No but what was a little surreal was becoming an integrated member of a Russian spacecraft crew after spending most of my adult life training to fight the Russians. Standing at the base of the Russian rocket that was to carry my two Russian military cremates and I to space and seeing an American flag along side a Russian flag on the rocket was a very moving experience and really illustrates the power of setting aside our differences and working together toward common goals.
Hey everyone I have to take a break for a coupe of hours.  I will circle back as soon as I can and answer as many of your questions as I can.  Keep em' coming!
Hi Ron, I was wondering what the best path to becoming an astronaut is? Pilot or scientist/engineer? Thank you for being such an inspiration.
Thank you for such a considered response!  And thanks to Sonic_Tower for asking it!
When you where in space, how long would it take for you to " float from one country to an other. Like if you're above Argentina, would it take a long time to manually position your self so that you'd be over a country like South Africa? Thank You !
I would imagine myself feeling the same way.
How would you describe the period between liftoff and arrival at your destination?
To follow up - how do you think people can get an Orbital Perspective if we never leave the ground?  I'm asking as a psychologist who studies moral behavior - I would love to find a kind of experience that anyone can have, that would be as profound as a trip to space, in revealing how vast the universe is and how we are all in this together on our little rock. 
Who do you most look up to? Do you think astronauts don't get enough publicity, or do you not really care?
what is the oldest piece of technology still in use in space travel that could be replaced but isn't for whatever reason, and which piece simply can't be replaced because there is no modern counterpart?
What is the sensation when you are "walking" in the space?   What is the space sound?  Do you have fear once up there looking us like ants?
One hundred years from now, what do you envision humanity will have achieved in space? 
Is this a lasting side effect from being in space, or something that happens in space? I've never heard of this. I'm confused and curious. 
Are you religious?
During your time in the rocket going up, how scared were you?
Did you encounter any dangerous situations when you were in space?  Would you say your time in space was more appreciated and fun than when you're on Earth?
Hi Ron!  Earlier this year, I sent you an email (and then tweeted at you. I was salty.) with a question that I had while researching my debate case (for NFA-LD).  In an article awhile back, you said that the moon would be a "superb location for early (Near-Earth Object) detection systems". Why is that?
Hey Ron! Thanks for doing this AmA, but I gotta ask.. While in space did you ever look out the window and see anything UFO related? 
The best thing to do is look out the window nut we also have movies to watch
When I first started college our space program was between Skylab and the Shuttle.  To me our nation didn't have a space program.  I started college enrolled as a business major.  When I was a sophomore the first shuttle mission occurred and I went in to my advisors the next day to see how I could start taking math and science courses
Yes on my first mission during a spacewalk I was "flown" on a big arc above the space station by the space station's robotic arm. At the top of this arc on the nighttime side of the orbit I was way above the lights of the ISS.  I turned my helmet lights off and when my eyes adjusted to the darkness, I was looking out at infinity. I could see the Milky Way and satellites whizzing by above me. It was a surreal experience
The best path is to do what you truly love to do and become the very best you can at it.  Hopefully this field has a technical component to it that can contribute to space exploration.
We travel at 5 miles per second.  At that speed, it's a mater of minutes to go from continent to continent.
On the Soyuz we "tumbled" around the planet every 90 minutes for 2 and a half days. The view was constantly changing. I spent most of my time looking out the window because during this period I had very few tasks to do.
I look up to people who are making a positive difference in our world no matter big or small. Astronauts have all been given a very unique perspective of our world and I certainly feel a responsibility to share that perspective.  To the extent that "publicity" can be used to share the perspective of our planet from space to inspire people to make a difference, I think it's a good thing.
Probably the Soyuz spacecraft but why replace something that works great. If it aint broke don't fix it. I'm sorry, I don't know the answer to your 2nd question. Does anyone know?
The dominant sensation on a spacewalk is awe. Awe of our planet and awe of the amazing human accomplishment that the International Space Station represents. The only sound you hear on a spacewalk is the communications on the radio in your headset and the sound of the  fans in your spacesuit.  It's hard not to realize that your in a very hostile, dangerous environment but I never thought of the people down below on Earth as ants.
Colonization of other planets in our Solar System and the start of human exploration outside it.
I believe in God
On a scale of 1 to 10?
What kind of training did you have to do to become an astronaut? 
[deleted]
We did have a large piece of space junk pass very close to the space station while I was there traveling fast enough that it probably would have destroyed the station had it hit us.  You really start to appreciate the beauty that defines life in space and it can really be fun because it is so unique and special.
Because the dark side of the Moon is shielded from light, radio waves and other "noise" from Earth and because there's no atmosphere it serves as a pristine platform to monitor incoming natural threats to our planet.  Sorry I missed your tweet. 
No I did not.
Everything from classroom to simulators, language, physical and aircraft training.  Most of things we're trained on are procedures we'll hopefully never use (various emergency procedures)
Great question! One of the main points of my book is that we don't have to be in orbit to have an orbital perspective.  It requires taking a big picture and long-term view and practicing what I like to call elevated empathy.  Truly putting yourself in the shoes of others.  Above all else it's realizing that there's not an us and them. The key is we!
It only happens while in space
Hey Ron.  [I made you laugh one time with a cat.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VJcno_XL4RU&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=17s)  I'm a civil servant who dreams of being an astronaut.  I've recently started a space series and hope to do several videos with you guys in Houston in the coming months.  Might you be interested in working together on something together? 
Sounds like fun!
All the best on your quest to become an astronaut.  It's a great job and the space program needs all the help it can get. We've got a big Universe to explore.
Awesome.  I don't know where to go from here just yet, but I'll be in touch!
did you see any aliens?
No but that's because they're really really small
Mr. Garan, how did you feel when NASA cut its budget and stop the shuttle program? Second, How do you think we as a nation can back NASA to continue space exploration? Do you also feel that corporate space exploration is slow moving compared to NASA???  Thank you sir for your time.
I feel like getting drunk in space would be a fantastic experiment.  
I understood that we needed to cancel the Space Shuttle program to fund the Moon program.  I closed the hatch on the last Space shuttle mission and rang the ISS's bell as Space Shuttle Atlantis departed the ISS for the last time. We were filled with mixed emotions. Sad because the Space Shuttle program was ending and it will probably be decades before we have the capabilities that the Space Shuttle provided but happy that the closing of one chapter of our space program signified the opening of another that would hopefully take us out of Low Earth Orbit. But the subsequent cancelation of the program that would bring us to the Moon (this time to stay), I believe, was a shortsighted mistake. I believe that commercial space flight operations in Low Earth Orbit will eventually enable the large government space agencies to begin human exploration of the Solar System.
Thank you for you reply.  I can't imagine how you must of felt being on the last shuttle mission.  Like most people, i am far to young for the Apollo and Skylab missions, but the Shuttle looked like a great ride.  Thank you again 
[deleted]
What is the difference in taste and texture between freeze dried and fresh food? Strange question, I know, but I've always wondered. . .
Did you always want to be an astronaut? and if not when did you decide to become one? sorry if this has already been asked. also, any advice for people aspiring to be astronauts?
This is a very vague answer. Repetitive too. "The true answer to your question is...", Why would you need to say that. You're hiding something aren't you. Covering all the bases.
What was the most surprising module/subject matter that you encountered as part of your training (the "OMG I never imagined I would have to know how to do this" moment)?
wat
Hi Ron, I hope I'm not to late;  I think it's fair to say most of us are child like in envy that you've been in out of space, I can only imagine the awe inspiring sensation when experiencing zero gravity and looking back at Earth.  I hear that a lot of astronauts get an overwhelming feeling of compassion for man kind as whole, and a general sense that on the grand scheme of things our petty wars, greed and fights over trivial things are meaningless and we should all get along and prosper for a common goal, I'm not sure if I'm wording this correctly but did the experience change your perspective on life? Does it ever feel like we should fund and advocate for global peace, and unity as we continue and make the next big leap of faith together, differences aside?  Also, have you had the chance to have a play around with the SpaceEngine game?   I'll look forward to your film! Take care.
[deleted]
omg that is awesome!
Hi Mr. Garan! Thank you so much for doing this AMA. I have several questions:  1) What sort of scientific experiments did you do at the ISS? Examples?  2) Within 25 years or so, what do you believe will be the biggest scientific/engineering/infrastructural advancement made for human spaceflight?  3) What can an ordinary person like myself do to advance mankind's venture into space?  4) What made you interested in being a part of Planetary?  5) What would you like viewers to take away most from the film?
/u/VirtualBanana you can always try some for yourself http://www.amazon.com/American-Outdoor-Products-Astronaut-Neapolitan/dp/B00005C2M2
Do the pictures taken from EVAs really do the actual view any justice?
Hi Ron! Really huge fan of your work.  I've always wanted to be an astronaut; any tips on how I can start on my dream?
You mention that you've been both deep sea and space. In which did you feel safest and where felt the most isolated? 
Do you know if female astronauts experience female ailments in space ?  Menstruation was a real drag for me .  I had such a flow , abdominal pain , lower back pain , slight headaches , dizzy spells , diarrhea , dry skin , brittle nails , lethargy , tiredness , fatigue , very rare but sometimes I felt depressed .  Tell me , is it possible to overcome these ailments in space ?  What about cravings , do female astronauts have cravings for certain foods ?  Can female astronauts avail themselves to plentiful junk food like twinkies and ding dongs ?  How do you like this ding dong ?  Do post-menopausal female astronauts become irritable in space ?  So so , did you get this ding dong ?  Do middle-aged female astronauts have cravings for cashew nuts and salty chips ?  Does their weight fluctuate ?  Binge and purge in their younger years ?  Do middle-aged female astronauts experience severe depression in space ?  Do young female astronauts become lost and perturbed ?  Were they 28 , 38 , or 48 when this happened in space ?  Are they forlorn and ditzy in space ?  Do they have that "Lost in Space" look ?  or  is it "Star Trek ?"  Did 158 go up to 198 is less than 9 months ?  How did she get so big ?  Was it all the salt from the potato chips and pretzels and processed food on our consumer oriented planet ?  Brie 57 is wondering how in  the world did americans become so obese ?  Do you know ?  Does Brie 57 have that "Lost in Space" look all the time ?  Or did just happen at age 28 , 38 , and 48 ?  Is she a space cadet ?  So so did a female astronaut ever black out in space ?  Did the female astronaut recover quickly ?  Was she 36 or 54 ?  Do female astronauts experience fainting spells in space ?  So so do they feel headaches up and down in space ?  Did she feel like her  head was coming off ?  Did the female astronaut have a heart condition ?  So so do you know if exercise in space alleviates those monthly menstruation symptoms that women experience on those special days of the month ?  So so do you know if their illnesses are psychosomatica , that means they are off kilter every month ?  Do you stay away from one , male or female , if you see them from a distance in space ?  Now seriously , do you know if female astronaut candidates suffer from mental fatigue ?  Are they always tired in their 20's , 30's , and 40's ?  Physically tired and runned down by the family in their 30's or 40's ?  Do you know ?  Do you know if there has  ever been a psychotic female astronaut in space ?  Could that happen ?  Would make for a good movie ? Ha , ha , ha , was it a joke ?  The mother in training is actually 82 , my mom , and she was wondering if you make good  breakfast burritos in space ?  The 57 year old daughter that still lives at home was wondering if the lower back pain is severe in middle-aged astronauts ?  So so does the middle-aged astronauts feel pain in their hands and  wrists ?  Do they feel pain in their rib cage ?  Does the middle-aged adult or astronaut feel pain in the ankles ? Does the astronaut feel tension in the neck area and upper back area ?  Does a self-massage help relieve the stress and anxiety ?  Can I get a patch please ?  So so I was wondering if female astronauts experience stomach discomfort in space ?  Do they get real bloated after eating a meal ?  Do they feel real sick during their menstrual  cycle ?  Do they have a severe pain in their abdominal area ?  Is it possible they might send a mother daughter team up in space someday ?  Do they look like twins ?  Does the astronaut feel pain in their hands ?  Is the arthritis in their hands severe ?  Do they have a tingling sensation running up and down the left leg ?  Or the right leg ?  Does popping a Tylenol pill make it feel better ?  Does eucalyptus rub make it feel better ?  Can a astronaut massage his face in space ?  Can he massage his head in space ?  If it works for me it might work for you ? Is the resistance of the female astronaut greater or lesser than the male as to their ability to take it (extended periods of time) longer in space ?  Do female astronauts in their 50's feel pain in their ankles and joints ?  Is the female's upper body strength a challenge in space ?  Or lack of upper body strength ?  Lately , I have been having a lot of pain in my lower extremities , does this pose a problem for middle-aged astronauts in space ?  Do middle-aged female astronauts get off on a tangent in a normal conversation ?  Do they sound incoherent ?  Is it because  they are menopausal or post-menopausal ?  Do you wonder about middle - aged astronauts that have never had sex ?  So so do you know if middle-aged female astronauts have a problem with balance and coordination ?  Did the impact of the intentional car collision at age 1 , 15 , and 24 affect the female's cognitive thinking skills ? Do they have vertigo in space ?  Was their hearing ok ?  Or did they have a problem with their hearing due to a car accident ?  Was the candidate 1, 15 , 24 ?  How was she able to get out of the vehicle without any physical  impairment ?  Without any obvious physical impairment ?  How was she able to walk like a normal person ?  Does  the pain never go away ?  The jolt in the body never went away , is that possible ?  The memory of the jolt ?  Did  the jolt cause other long term effects on the body of the female ?  Was it the neck and the lower spine ?  And the head ?  Would the female candidate have coping mechanisms in place for some type of traumatic accident ? Did  the 4.11 , 5.4 , and 5.6 or 7 get any support ? Living or not living in Los Angeles can do that to you sometimes , so so does the female candidate for the space program have a chance to mingle with the males in the underwater program ?  If the female candidate is prone to panic attacks could she still go up there ?
Do you know if astronauts experience a problem with bone loss in space ?  Do you know if astronauts feel severe pain in their joints and hips after the age 50 ?  Do astronauts feel pain in their ankles ? Do they feel pain in their pinkies ?  So so do they feel pain in their spinal cord ?  So so do they feel pain in their neck area ? Do you know if astronauts feel pain in their wrists ?  Do they feel a tingling sensation in the legs ?  Do they feel extremely tired after sitting for several hours ?  Does the female feel tired after being in one position for six hours , for example like standing ?  Does the female astronaut over age 50 feel any pain in her knee joints ?  Do post-menopausal female astronauts over 50 feel skin allergies and various type of rashes in space ?  Do they break out in certain parts of their body ?  Now if they have never done it , can they do it space ?  Do female astronauts experience their menstrual cycle in space ?  Is it age 12 - 50 ?  Do you know ?  Do you know if female astronauts over 55 experience memory loss in space ?  Is that possible ?  Do any of them wear bifocals ?  Did she start wearing them at age 49 ?  Does the female astronaut feel uncomfortable in the presence of so many men ,  I mean the male astronauts in the spaceship ?  Do you know if female astronauts over 50 have a problem with fine facial hair on their chin ?  Do female astronauts over 50 , do they break out in a red skin rash over certain parts of their body ?   Do they feel a stinging sensation ?  Do they feel discomfort ?  Is their hair dry and brittle at certain times of the month ?  Does she ever have a headache in space ?  Is dry skin a problem in space ?  How about hot flashes ? So so do you know if a female astronaut had a panic attack up there , what would the other astronauts do ?  So so do you know if the female astronaut has an uncontrollable urge to hug everybody in space ?  Do the other astronauts , so so do you know if they run in the other direction ?  So so do you know if the astronauts have quality conversations in space ? So so do you know if female astronauts become moody and temperamental in space ?  Do you know if female astronauts have an uncontrollable urge to kiss everybody ?  Do female astronauts feel forlorn and sad in space ?  So so do they get very lonely or is the solitude a good thing when you are up  there ?  Do female astronauts experience bladder leakage at age 55 , 56 , or 57 ?  Do they still shave after 55 ?  What about skin cancer ?  Do astronauts have any problems with the texture of their skin in space ?  Do they use  lotions for extremely dry skin ? Did the 3 M's have a problem with their hormones at age 55 ?  Does the female astronaut over 55 have fluctuations in her hormones ?  For example , does she grow facial hair on her chin ?
Do you know if astronauts experience severe headaches in space ?  Do female astronauts experience lower abdominal pain and lower back pain in space ?  Do female astronauts experience a sense of being bloated in space ?  Do female astronauts experience a sense of being dizzy in space ?  Do female astronauts ever have fainting spells in space ?  Did a female astronaut ever black out in space ?  Do they experience claustrophobia in space ?  How about a melt down after age 55 ?  Do tempers flare in space ?  So so do females get moody in space ?  Do female astronauts after age 50 , do they get frisky ?  If a female astronaut is over 50 and she is post-menopausal , does she arouse easily ?  Now if the female astronaut has never ever been in space how does she handle her solitude for extended periods of time ?  How does she handle her bouts of depression ?  How does she cope with her aging process in space ?  Do post-menopausal female astronauts experience loss of memory in space ?  Do they forget things ? Do post-menopausal female astronauts feel a sense of frustration ?  Do post-menopausal astronauts feel depression in space ?  If the female astronaut had estrogen replacement therapy when she was younger , is it possible she could experience hot flashes in space ?  Do post-menopausal women in space become irritable after 55 ?  How does a female astronaut keep a youthful looking appearance in space ?  Do the wrinkles set in ?  Do post-menopausal female astronauts at age 57 experience mental fatigue in space ?  So so do you know ?   So so does the female astronaut overeat at dinner time when she is in space ?  Or does the female astronaut fast for periods of time to facilitate her digestive system ?  Do female astronauts over 50 eat small portions of food or are they big portions ?  Do female astronauts over 50 take calcium in other forms like supplements or chewable tablets ?  Can a female astronaut do it in space ?  Do female astronauts over 50 experience hot flashes ?  Do female astronauts over 50 experience severe pain in their joints ?  Do astronauts male or female experience memory loss in space ?  Do female astronauts have the beginnings of dementia in space if they are over 55 ?  Do female astronauts have a problem with balance in space ?  Do they have frequent headaches , do you know ?   How about muscular pain and soreness in their joints ?  Did they use bifocals at age  D 46 or 47 ?  Do you know if lower back pain is a problem in space ?  Do astronauts have nervous allergies in space ?  Do they break out with a rash in certain parts of their body ?  Do they sneeze and cough because of the pollen in the air ? Do female astronauts lose the texture of their hair in space ?  Does their hair become dry and brittle in space ?  Do female astronauts experience extreme dry skin or itchiness in their skin when they are in space ?  Do they ever  break out in a red rash due to nervous allergies or changes in climate zones ?  Do female astronauts experience significant hair loss in space ?  Is it possible to have a fainting spell in space ?  What if the female astronaut over 55 has lost all her sense of balance and coordination ?  What would you do ?  Is it possible she can experience a  mini-stroke in space ?  Are the issues astronauts face very different for each individual astronaut or are they the same for everybody ?  Does the age of the astronaut make an impact on his performance in space or does it not make a difference ?  Do you know if two astronauts fell in love , would they permit them to go up in a space flight to the space ship ?  Don't you think that human dynamic would affect the performance of the whole team ?  I can't imagine being up there for such a long period of time , do astronauts become more thoughtful and spiritual in their way of thinking ?  Astronauts really do inspire earthlings in their everyday life , do you think it is possible  that one day regular humans can join them for a short time and return to earth in a real quickie trip ?  So so do astronauts have hunger pangs or sudden cravings for junk food ? Do female astronauts have eating disorders in  space ?  Do female astronauts have a desire to eat everything that is available in the spaceship ? So so do you  know if the female astronaut is immature does she still have a chance of going up there someday ? Now if the female astronaut has never had sex , could she do it up there with one of the handsome astronauts ? If that is not permissible , could they at least kiss ?  Is that possible , can two astronauts kiss in space ?  Is it possible a married couple could go up in space one day ?  Imagine all of the psychological benefits .  
&gt;You're hiding something aren't you  dons tin-foil hat
&gt;tips tin-foil hat  m'conspiracy
I couldn't agree with this more
Hello Mr. Garan, hopefully I'm not too late.  Do you have any plans to expand the Fragile Oasis website? I feel that Reddit could be a very useful tool in driving traffic towards the site.   P.s. Love your new book, everyone should read it!
Hi Ron,   Could you explain the emotions that you went through going on your first spacewalk &amp; looking down on earth from from that perspective. Did it have any profound effect on your outlook on life, yourself &amp; our existence.  Are you religious? if so did it have any effects on your beliefs?  
The fuck, mate.
What's that one potential emergency procedure that you fear the most?  ^(omg look mom I'm talking to an astronaut!)
how do you play any sports in the confines of the ISS? is there any worry about knocking something delicate? is playing sports in zero G as fun as it sounds.
It's energetic particles passing through your brain.
Thank you for your response
[deleted]
How well can you see the stars from the ISS/ outside the ISS?
[deleted]
Hi Ron and thanks for sharing. Probably my question will be too personal, but I'll ask anyways. Did you ever rub one out in the ISS?  No one is speaking about that kind of necessities in space, so I was curious. Thanks
So you're going to be like that
Thank you for replying!! I know this question sometimes can be too private to ask but I did it anyway to see if you would. Specially interesting since you are an astronaut. 
Hmm, I think I might try this out. Thanks!
It's my favorite too. The soundtrack is also brilliant. 
best answer ever read
On the space station the majority of the food is either dehydrated or irradiated. If you've ever gone camping and brought along pre-packaged camping food it's very much like that.  For the most part, the food is not bad.  The Russians actually bring up food in cans and their food is more like real food. Periodically unmanned cargo spacecraft arrive and they will normally have some fresh food on board too.  Those are always real treats.
My most vivid childhood memory is watching the Apollo-11 Moon landing on television in 1969.  I was mesmerized by the experience and wanted to join those exploring the Solar System. Although I wouldnt have bee able to put it in these words, but even as a small boy I, at some level, realized that we had just become a different species, a species no longer confined to our planet and I wanted to be a part of that. So, I wanted to become an astronaut since July 20th 1969.
Growing wood in Space... Impossibru!!!
What is the absolute coolest thing about exploring the galaxy? 
I bet the stimulation given by MDMA would be even greater. So much love for our planet! 
[deleted]
Did you go to the aquarius base?  What was your favorite part of living under water? 
Did you experience the  "over view effect?" if so, can you describe it? 
Ron, first of all, Thank you for doing this!  My question is, how have you seen NASA, The ISS, and Manned Spaceflight change since the Shuttle was retired?
Wow. I have often found it amazing that the United States and Russia have come so far in the past 20 years, but this really puts it into perspective.
Aren't they kind of similar to each other?
Isn't this just going to happen more and more often?  What can be done to prevent it?
Indescribable
What are your thoughts on private companies like SpaceX and Virgin Galactic (both as a commercial space liner and satellite delivery)?
Yes, but I was specifically talking about the self control in one situation vs the other. ?
Nipples?
JET FUEL CAN'T MELT STEEL BEAMS 
Sorry for late reply, a scale from 1 to 10 would be great! :)
Watch the cosmos on mdma lol
How much has your diet changed since becoming an astronaut?
What do you miss most when in space?
Hello! You're such a fascinating person. I'm an aspiring aerospace engineering (I'm off to college next fall). What can you say lead to your success as an astronaut? They say going to space is a very humbling experience. Did you see anything while you were in space that really made you pause and think? 
What job would you have done if you where unable to work within the space industry? 
Have you ever heard of or played Kerbal Space Program?
