[deleted]
Users, please be wary of proof. You are welcome to ask for more proof if you find it insufficient.   OP, if you need any help, please message the mods [here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fiama&amp;subject=&amp;message=).  Thank you!   *[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Easy question: Why can't I ever find download links in any of your press releases and blog entries?
Formatting of the post did not do us any favors. Proof added to the original post.
What are the hot updates we should lookout for in Skype for business in comparison with Lync 2013?
What do you guys do for fun in the office?
This article talks about disabling the Skype UI via registry/GPO:  https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Switching-between-the-Skype-for-Business-and-the-Lync-client-user-interfaces-a2394a4c-7522-484c-a047-7b3289742be0  What are the other possible values of EnableSkypeUI? 
What is your biggest compitetion right now?
heh - yeah....I can see how that happens.  The process to move bits out to the web as you may imagine has a bunch of steps - we draft the blog post, get it out the door and at the same time Engineering is getting the KB put together and posted through their process.  Both are async.  So yeah, it's annoying - whenever we can we do include links to the actual KBs.  This time around, I ended up tweeting out the KB cause it landed a few hours later.  Again, apologies for the hassles - it's honestly not our intent to make stuff like "download here" difficult to find. - Jamie  
Thanks for the update, it's been a long time coming and we appreciate the much-improved UI.  Why did you choose to deploy the new UI as a default first-launch, but then revert back to Lync UI if the system administrator had _not_ already ran the powershell code to specify what UI they wanted for the end users?  Seems like it would have been good to either automatically use the Skype UI for everyone, or by default have it assume Lync 2013 UI.  But you kind of did something in the middle, which for passive administrators of Lync means the UI will be extremely confusing to users that first time they run after yesterday's update to Skype for business - if their Lync administrators didn't already manually run a powershell script on their servers.   Thanks again
Oh boy! So many things to talk about here, and I'm sure Jamie will chime in as well. Besides all the improvements we have made both on the backend and to the frontend UI across all clients and platforms, you will find exciting new interop features such as Video Interoperability Server, Call via Work, lots of interesting things that we are doing to integrate with services we will be offering from our Cloud (both O365 and Azure) and much, much more. Check out some of the announcements we have made around Enterprise Connect and at the Skype for Business launch events!  - Taimoor
Do you plan to offer a service such as "Skype for Business at Home" where telecommuters can use your service, but not have to suffer through consumer support channels?
[deleted]
It really depends on the group &amp; the location.   Our team does a good job of taking a break every couple weeks for beers in the afternoon.   There was karaoke after Enterprise Connect....but hopefully the evidence remains buried in a tightly locked OneDrive.
Well, with the new set of emojis, I like to send random messages to our team to let them know exactly how I'm feeling.   Honestly, this is the most passionate team ive been a part of, and we have fun doing what we do every day. Online meetings are our guilty pleasure! :)  - Taimoor
Is there changes in Skype for Business licensing for on-premises vs. Lync Server 2013? 
Answering my own question: It seems that setting the value to 01 works just fine.
When are the mobile apps coming?
You have only updated the clients.  There are no new features available at this time - specifically I'm thinking of adding Skype users as contacts.  When will the Office 365 Lync Online servers be updated so we can use the new features?
Does Skype for Business allow searching for contacts both inside and outside of the Enterprise Exchange org?
Can we get a clear answer on the direction S4B will take in regards to the Mac operating system?
Are there any plans to make updates to the Skype for Business (client or backend) more transparent when it comes to changes?  I've been burned several times in Lync 2013 when a back end, or client change happens but never actually shows up in the change log.
Skype for Business, Lync and OCS have inherently have had support for remote workers since the beginning. This is a very key user scenario that we feel we have done a great job at landing. There is no compromise to be made, whether you would like to use communications at the office, at home, or when you travel. No VPN's, no lack of features and functionality. Simple and easy so you can focus on what you do best!  - Taimoor
What is the status on Lync/Skype interpretting commas as pauses?
Thanks for reporting back. Indeed that was the correct answer.
Hi Jamie and Taimoor. Exciting times with the transition from Lync to Skype4B.
This is Jamie.  The work to bring Lync to Skype for Business was significant - it's not a "Skype-washing" of the client and involved a bunch of work on the interaction model (the state machines that sit behind the UI) and streamlining things like transferring calls and starting video.  Then we did a bunch of deep back-end work for supporting things like calling with Skype consumer users signed in with Skype IDs (before we just supported users signing in with MSAs) and doing a search across the Skype user graph that uses search algorithms from Bing.    Of the back-end stuff - call via work is my favorite.  Allows customers to give everyone a Skype for Business voice experience even though they keep their PBX phones.  We have a  whole session devoted to it at Ignite that's being delivered by one of my favorite MVPs.  So stoked.
Another easy question: Did the Skype for Business client get tested before deploying it to the world?  In our work environment (Lync Server 2013 On Prem fully CUed) internal calls between the Preview Clients and also the full release do not work!
Are you guys guaranteeing interoperability? I depend on Lync to meet with my team every day. Also, what are  there any potential issues with embedded Lync devices like Smartboards? My IT guy is freaking out about our recently purchased teleconferencing Smartboards.
In addition to searching the corporate directory, we have included the Skype Global Directory in the client as well. Not only can you search the Skype directory, but you can do so in context. So if you look for Taimoor, you will probably find a couple dozen of them, but there should only be a few "Taimoor in California" and even fewer in San Francisco :)
How long do you guys plan to give the option of the old lync? Is there going to be a time that you're going to force skype for business instead of lync? 
Thanks. We are very excited too!
Yeah, absolutely.  Tons of internal testing, TAP (technology adoption program, run by engineering, with real customers) - I've been doing federated video calls and meetings using the Skype for Business client with partners for months now and never had a media connectivity issue that wasn't explained somehow (network, blowing up our alpha server with a new build, etc.)
UGH THIS WAS JAMIE - I promise to get better.
[deleted]
I would like to know if there is any news about the Skype4b mobile clients? Will they be released when the server is released?
What was the final build number of the SfB RTM? 
Nope.  Licensing remains the same.   - Jamie
Good question. I am still rocking Lync 2013 on my Lumia.
Can you make it easier for Lync 2013 / Skype for Business server administrators to keep their servers patched and updated?   Right now you have to download 10-15 MSIs and know what services are running, and determine what order to run those patches.  Can you create an updater system that scans the topology and just does CU's and brings servers up to the latest patch level automatically? Even if it was just per-server, not the whole topology (I understand a lot of people have complex and hybrid infrastructures, or don't want to update all services simultaneously).  Even when doing a major rev change it would be great to run setup.exe and it identifies all the Lync/Skype services you're running on that server, and it will then download and install the appropriate latest patches, including roll-back protection like most of your other software update/in-place-upgrade solutions currently provide.   Here's a basic process Microsoft provides for applying a CU - something that should be just that, a cumulative update. Run, click next,next,next and should be done - maybe reboot, depends. Carry on with your evening activities. :) But as you can see from the contained diagram... not so simple.   http://blogs.technet.com/b/dodeitte/archive/2013/02/27/how-to-apply-lync-server-2013-cumulative-updates.aspx  Or incorporate that into the WSUS or similar tool for automatic updates? You have started doing this for other products, even including the projected method for the new Windows 10 release through Window Update, and it's a great Idea. It would be very welcome on keeping SPs update to date and especially the new rolling CU's for Lync 2013/Skype for Business, so we can stay up to date with much less effort.   It is appreciated that Microsoft is providing more routine and rapid updates and patches these days. Keep up that great work! It's nice to have bugs fixed within a couple months rather than waiting a year for a massive SP or major release.   Thanks! 
Absolutely, in addition to the testing that some of our select few customers have been doing for us, we have been testing early releases of the clients for quite a few months now. I'm surprised you are having these challenges. Do you have a support channel you can work through to understand better what might be going on?  - Taimoor
Can't disclose the date at this point but definitely Skype for Business mobile applications will be available on iOS and Android in the coming months. In the meantime, customers can continue to use the Lync mobile clients with Skype for Business - they still work great.
AGAIN THIS WAS JAMIE.
When is Lync phone edition being updated?
What's the future of Skype for Business on Prem look like?
We will automatically update the Lync Online service to be Skype for Business Online, and all customers should be transitioned by the end of May.  This change will result in new branding and messages in the administrator portal, but is independent of the Skype for Business client change.   - Jamie
We have a very extensive Interoperability program (one that Jamie leads actually), and we are committed to providing interop to all kinds of devices. Smart actually makes a very compelling solution previously called Lync Room Systems that integrate very nicely with Lync and Skype for Business, bringing the power of full UC to the conference rooms. You should check them out.  - Taimoor
Is Skype4B using the same UserVoice site Lync did, or should we look somewhere new?
15.0.4711.1002  - Jamie
Forgive my naivety.  For a small business (O365 E3 customer) that wants to use S4B exclusively for all things voice (like a hosted PBX) - including handsets for those that want them. What is the best way to achieve this?  [Ideally] We simply want to plug-in and go, pay a monthly fee, and have our voice infrastructure taken care of by S4B.
[deleted]
Answered here: http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/32p2w4/skype_for_business_team_here_from_microsoft_ask/cqd9dpd
Seriously, not even a *mention* of your own product? Windows Phone users are people too.
Once the Preview client was released a number of us installed it. Once we installed the client we could not call Preview Client to Preview Client but calls from Preview Client to Lync 2013 worked without a problem. Uninstalling Office completely and reinstalling Lync without the Preview works perfectly again. Now the full release has come out, anyone allowing Windows Updates to install the client has the same issue. We are Microsoft Gold Communication partners and specialise in Enterprise Voice so we know what we are doing. Currently we have a ticket open with Support and were initially told we would have to wait for a patch!
Check out Jamies response here : [mobile clients](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/32p2w4/skype_for_business_team_here_from_microsoft_ask/cqd9dpd)
Will the preview client work within an existing Lync Server 2013 infrastructure?
I was suprised by this too. In a world where Network Security is generally fearful of the word "Skype", showing user the Skype GUI on first launch seemed like a bold move. 
Try gettting a consumer Skype issue resolved and I think you wil see the stark difference :)
What about for SfB Server (should have been more specific)?  Thanks All! 
So no Windows phone app? 
Sorry Taimoor, I was typing the reply to Jamie's message.  We do have support and a ticket open already.  The client refuses to connect the call.  The SIP Invite gets through and the call initiates on the receivers end but then the call fails I think at the SDP phase.
Love the UI, such a big improvement from 2013, excellent work.  My question is about the re-branding. By default the update reverts back to the 2013 UI, so users have the Lync 2013 UI, the Skype logo in the taskbar, the Lync logo in the Windows 8 start screen but the app is call S4B 2015, when the program is open its says Lync at the top, conferences are now Skype meetings, their mobile apps are still Lync 2013, and Mac is on Lync 2011.  Why not re-brand everything all at once with a small update, in its current state everything is very confusing for end users and even administrators? 
Great question. There are a lot of really interesting things that are happening at the moment in our industry, with a lot of innovation and we are proud to be a part of it. We believe that we have a tremendous value proposition to our customers when you look at our investments in O365 and Vendor provided Cloud based productivity, along with Data Connectivity to Customer premises from Microsoft Cloud, is a very interesting and unique proposition. Coupling that with our deep integration to the core of identity services, Asynchronous and Synchronous communications, Office and Windows, with all the cool devices that eco-system brings along with it, especially Surface Hub (which is my absolute favorite thing at the moment), I think our message and value proposition is absolutely stellar and we are always looking to learn from our competition and especially our customers and be better.  - Taimoor  
This is Jamie.  Totally hear you.  There was some healthy complexity in making this change - in that it had to operate across online &amp; server, had to support both cases where companies wanted to move quickly to the new UI &amp; cases where folks wanted to deploy the change through a larger adoption process.  Ultimately I think we ended up in a good place, but it meant we had to do a bunch of work to inform folks, which included releasing the preview so everyone could test &amp; get a feel for it.  Ultimately though, we absolutely do want everyone to use the Skype for Business user experience.  We are all super proud of the work and think it's going to help in usage and adoption - we've found that in our early customer testing pretty dramatically....
Hi, I have a comments about the new UI and would like to know what you think, agree, disagree, etc.:  1) You can see sharp corners when you hover over a contact in the main window. It disappears very quickly but it is extremely distracting  2) You cannot resize the text area into which you write a message in the IM window.  3) In the conference IM window, you need to hover over a video icon or audio icon and then make an additional click to initiate audio/video. Why is that? When the user only has one audio/video device you could spare him the extra click  4) The new client is very slow. Even my own messages take almost a second to show in the message window. Or when I click a toast I can see a message preview but then the IM window opens and one needs wait for the message to appear.  5) The new text bubbles in IM window seem to redraw really strangely. They sort of flicker and jump up and down when new messages are received.
Yes.
In the new Skype for business, when you have a window with tabbed conversations, can you click in the empty space to open a new message?       [Like this](http://imgur.com/4a3U2zw)       it would be really nice to click in that whitespace, and open a new tabbed message where you could just start typing the name of the contact you wanted send a message to.
This is Jamie.  I find we spend the most time is helping customers figure out good plans to move from what they have today (generally a loosely connected set of point solutions across modalities) to where they want to be (a unified solution providing equivalent functionality across devices) in a business reasonable way.  There are a lot of other companies looking at this space, but I really don't see anyone operating at the same level - and when I say that I'm considering things like Surface Hub, Skype Translator, Hybrid deployment models, etc...
Will Skype For Business Online support persistent chat?
Is Skype for business going to require the same amount of servers, and licenses required to run a Lync environment if you are not using office 365?    We have a Microsoft Select agreement so pricing is an issue with Lync. 
I'm running a Lumia 1520.  I cannot confirm nor deny the existence of a Skype for Business mobile client on my phone.  Hopefully you won't run into me at Ignite and accidentally see me using something like this on my phone.... - Jamie
I had to figure out what you were referring to, and now I wish I hadn't seen it!
Good afternoon I have a few questions, we were just discussing this update in our Sys-Admin meeting this morning. Is there any plan to allow users an option to quick import there current contacts from skype? Rather than one at a time?  Is there a reason that I do not get a consistent view when I have lync running on multiple clients. IE my phone and computer I would love to have the conversation available when I jump from one device to another.   Thank you for your time. Love the improvements.     
Haven't you answered your own question there? There is a CU produced and available via a quick ~~Goog~~ Bing. You just need to download the CU and run it on each Lync Server and then perform the necessary PowerShell commands to update the databases in use???
It was announced that Microsoft will start offering Enterprise Voice.  When will this be fully operational with porting of numbers, hunt groups, response groups, Auto Attendants, etc?  Will you directly compete with third party hosted Lync providers?
Today's Lync 2013 client is very difficult to update in 100,000+ desktop organization. Unlike other Office components, Lync is the only one that requires prerequisite updates to be installed as part of the update install. More specifically, the dependency to MSO, a set of core Office DLLs, makes it difficult to push updates in a timely manner without putting other components of their Office platform at risk.    The result is Lync packaging &amp; regression test cycle internally within IT (to ensure it doesn't nuke one of the 1000+ major line-of-business applications in one part of the organization) is often waaaaaaay longer than anything else Microsoft pushes out updates for.  This has given the Lync 2013 client a bad name in our organization.  As a defender of Lync/Skype4B, I ask:  Will Skype for Business client improve on this?  Is there anything at all that you can do to help us, a global Fortune 50 company?
Great Question. We have recently announced plans to offer Voice capability through our cloud. This means that soon, (in the next few months), you will be able to do just that. Have voice services managed from O365, including DID's and the features you would expect from a telephony platform, for a monthly fee. Bring your own devices (headsets, IP phones, Speakerphones, Meeting room devices etc.) as long as they are Qualified and you are all set.  Service rolls out in the US later this year and to other parts of the world starting next year.  - Taimoor
How will hosted Lync partners be able to upgrade from LHPv2 to S4B Server?
That's great feedback, I will send a permalink to your comment to the person in charge to take a look :)  Thanks  - Taimoor
Customers can continue to use this version of Skype for Business that has the Lync user experience and remain supported per the standard [Microsoft support lifecycle] (https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle?p1=16924).  But yeah, with future releases, we will just have the Skype for Business user experience.   - Jamie
I am hoping this is the case. MS has to promote the Skype brand as no longer being a security threat.
Is there any mobile SDK's coming that will let devs write their own mobile apps with voice and video?  Will it work with Xamarin?  Is there any idea of release date? 
What build are you running?  - Taimoor
My question is about security. Considering most governments are spying on Skype communications, what is being done to prevent corporate espionage?
At the moment there is no persistent chat in Skype for Business Online. We are working on a few things in the background to bring some exciting new way to collaborate. Meanwhile, have you taken a look at Office Groups and Yammer?  - Taimoor
Don't have a date for this - plan is to keep this as "Lync Phone Edition" for the time being.  Are you currently using LPE devices in your deployment?  Polycom or someone else?  - Jamie
How excited are you to work with hololens? 
Yo, can you give us some line breaks on this post ;)  https://nr.reddit.com/wiki/commenting#wiki_line_breaks
Running on 15.0.4711.1002 (yesterdays update)
Skype for Business On Premises Infrastructure hasn't changed much. We have added a couple of things that would require planning, like the Video Interoperability Server, but have not made many other changes to the underlying roles. Since Skype for Business supports in place upgrades we wanted this to be as seamless a transition as possible. Also, No licensing changes have been announced.  - Taimoor
Polycom CX600 and CX3000 primarily
Absolutely.  We're committed to providing a reliable, full featured experience for Mac users.  That's why we continue to release updates for the Mac client to continue to serve customers who are on Lync 2010 and 2013.  Like the mobile clients, the Mac client is coming later, but don't have a date to disclose at this time....hit me up at [Ignite](http://ignite.microsoft.com).   - Jamie
Indeed, we will be providing voice services through our cloud. This will begin rolling out in the US later this year! A full list of features will be announced soon.  I don't view it as competition necessarily but as an alternative offering. Our partners have the ability to offer value added services on top of their offerings. At the end of the day we believe choice is good for our customers and the industry as a whole.  - Taimoor
That doesn't sound like your previous statement, but maybe I am reading it wrong.  http://blogs.technet.com/b/lync/archive/2014/04/22/update-on-lync-phones.aspx
Will you guys still be incorporating Polycom video conferencing integration into Skype for business? I know you had plans to for Lync. 
Why is it that the quit button doesn't actually work?   Skype doesn't allow you to close it completely.   
Thanks for the response, will it integrate with AD?
We want to help transition the users easily. We understand organizations want more control in terms of the change their users see and face and we wanted to give them the flexibility to manage that change. This means that there will be a transition phase and their may be some transitionary things that you are seeing. Its good feedback though and we will look to see what we can do to improve.  - Taimoor
What is the final build number of the S4B server?
Do you plan on having better linux support in the future?
Hello. We're still stuck on OCS 2007 and have been using Lync 2013 UI with it by using DisableServerCheck in the registry. Unfortunately, that doesn't seem to be working post-upgrade to S4B. Is there a workaround for this? 
srsly How do you feel about the movie unfriended showing Skype as having choppy video? Or that it can be hacked easily/giving the impression that you can remove someone from a call?
Jamie here.  We got this feedback loud and clear during 2013 and so invested a TON of work on the topic of updates.  First, we have in-place upgrades from 2013 to Skype for Business, so you don't have to turn your servers to glass and start over from scratch to get to Skype for Business.  Part of that in-place upgrade is that the associated third party products (from OS/SQL to Gateways, RPs, etc.) continue to be supported.  So upgrade is sooo much easier.  I demoed it during an internal conference (granted, it didn't finish....)    We've also invested a bunch specifically on the update and patching process.  We talked about this during the Office 365 Summits - check the deck [here](http://www.scribd.com/doc/258679665/ITP29-Servicing-the-Existing-Deployment-and-Upgrading-to-Skype-for-Business-Server-v04#scribd) .... sorry for the poor copy, didn't have time to search for where it's actually stored.    We will also cover this topic at [Ignite](http://ignite.microsoft.com)  Jamie
When might we be able to expect full Skype integration with S4B? Including Skype users being able to join conference calls and group chats?
Hi, I see in the latest release notes yet more issues with copy and paste - this time with the right click context menu not working on the first IM. Why has copy, paste and text selection been such a difficult problem to fix? Thanks.  
We were using Google Hangouts before we convinced our IT to set up O365 Small Business for us. Being able to drop in and out of chat rooms that have history was very important to us. Anything like that in the pipeline? Office Groups and Yammer both require a website and are less instant than Hangouts.
Synchronized conversation history across devices is coming in Skype for Business.   At the moment there is no easy way for you to migrate your Skype contacts to Skype for Business.   - Taimoor
Hi, I was waiting for one thing to get fixed in the new UI; however, it's not. Please can yout let someone in the team know about this?:  &amp;nbsp;  A Skype user with a custom domain has a Microsoft account (e.g. user@contoso.com). The user is added as "user(contoso.com)@msn.com" to the Lync contact list. However, his contact info is not properly linked to the contact in Outlook even when he has the "user(contoso.com)@msn.com" set as IM address in Outlook contact list. When you display the user's contact card in Lync, it is empty (no phone number, home address, etc.)  &amp;nbsp;   This works fine for normal MSFT accounts (e.g. user@outlook.com). The contact in Lync is linked to a corresponding contact in Outlook and you can see his email address, phone number, home address, etc. in Lync.
What are MS's plans, if any, to branch into contact centre capability (i.e. intelligent contact routing)? Is there any drive to compete with the likes of Avaya beyond UCC? 
When we will see the improvements in the Lync Web App, hopefully a Skype For Business Web App?
Are Office 365 enterprise customers going to be able to simply sign into Skype for business and use it to communicate both inside and outside the organization?  We are a small organization who uses O365/Sharepoint regularly but Lync was not worth the time needed for us to implement.   TL;DR Is Skype going to be easier than Lync to setup and use?
Great question. We hear this quite a bit and are excited you are considering using the platform for these scenarios. It is indeed on our roadmap, but I don't have dates to share with you at the moment.   Incidentally persistent chat and IM/P are possible today. Its just the A/V and Screen share that's not possible in native apps today. You have to invoke and launch the Lync Mobile app to do so.  - Taimoor
Why don't your apps close when I click close? Both Lync and Skype do this and it pisses me off. It's terrible unintuitive design.   If I wanted to minimize something I'd minimize it. When I want to close something I close it. But "Lync is still running!" And "you can still receive Skype calls!" "Are you SURE you want to close?"  Ffs stop doing this. 
Sorry for the confusion.  We continue to support LPE, release updates for it (IIRC last one was in January...) etc.  At this time we aren't planning on rebranding the software to Skype for Business.  - Jamie
All Communications for Skype for Business are encrypted both within the platform and also to Skype consumer. Security is a big reason why enterprises and public sector companies look to Skype for Business for their communication needs.  -Taimoor
Oh man, you wouldn't even believe it. I am going to wear that thing all the time!  - Taimoor
[deleted]
Will the Skype for Business client be available as a standalone installer (for example on licensing.microsoft.com), instead of having to install Lync 2013 and then install the patch to make it Skype for Business? And if yes, when?  We are in the process of upgrading Lync 2010 clients and would like to upgrade directly to Skype for Business.
Polycom continues to be a very strong and important partner in our eco system. We have recently made some announcements alongside Polycom on the big stage at Enterprise Connect. We will continue to work closely with them as they innovate alongside us to bring solutions to you.  - Taimoor
I'm sorry to hear that.  We work to make sure everything is documented in KBs and when we discover something that isn't I've personally been involved in going back and getting them published, even if it's minor.    - Jamie
Hello S4B team, how do u find ur UC competitor Cisco Jabber suite as compared to the new S4B product ? Especially with voice features  
Lync on OSX was the most embarrassingly awful pile of shit I've had the misfortune to use in a good decade. Are you going to try harder this time?
The future is bright. We understand that different organizations have different needs, and while we continue to innovate and bring compelling solutions to our customers through our cloud offerings, we also realize the need to have On Premise infrastructure. No changes in that regard.  - Taimoor
These are good points to ponder at. We will have someone consider this feedback.
Absolutely! this is at the core of what it does today!  - Taimoor
Depends on the scenario, right?  The case I've heard is that folks want to have a dial string in their contact list that has pauses embedded, and this is complicated because of the way we do number normalization (translating from a dialed number to a E.164 number so we can do RNL &amp; determine if it's in network).    Are you looking to do this to dial into a conference bridge or voicemail? - Jamie
Like may other communications tools, we like to think that you didn't mean to quit the application, yet simply minimize it to the taskbar. You can however right click and exit/quit the application. This is consistent with the Skype consumer app as well.  - Taimoor
Server isn't out yet.  A couple weeks :)  - Jamie
Are we all agreed that Skype4B abbreviation and hashtag are cool but SfB is not cool? 
[deleted]
Two tough ones ;)  1) Given that Skype is a binary blob with a ton of defensive measures against analysis which bypasses most if not all firewalls bouncing traffic around the world, how do you suggest IT departments verify that you are not doing anything bad on the local machine and/or the content?  2) Are there any plans for Skype for Linux more specific than "let it wither and die"?  You seem like nice people and I don't really expect useful answers, but I just had to ask; sorry.
Unfortunately not. There are certain amounts that we can put in our test cases and as we iterate, it gets too complex to support older versions.  Is there something we can do to help you upgrade?  - Taimoor
Havent seen the movie, but I'm adding it to my Netflix queue after this. Is it any good? Will have to revert back :)  FWIW - I haven't had choppy video on Skype in a long time.  - Taimoor
send me the details offline and I'll take a look - Jamie
We continue to add features and functionality to our integration with Skype. We started with IM and Presence, Added Audio and now Video. We are working on all the use case scenarios that make sense for the two and will be working on those in the coming future.  - Taimoor
I'd like a pair of devices that can always find each other, and deliver high quality video chat to each other, so I can FedEx one to a customer the day before an event and not have to worry about registering for accounts, clicking on links to connect, opening apps, any of that crap. Just plug it into a TV and go. Does such a product exist?
Hmm. Interesting in problem. I'm taking a note of it. Thanks for reporting.  - Taimoor
[deleted]
The Lync web app offers full fidelity meetings through the browser as a first party experience, including audio/video desktop share and meeting controls.   What additional capabilities would you like to see?  - Taimoor
Is there any idea on the pricing when Microsoft starts offering Enterprise Voice?
You can do this today with Lync online as well. And will certainly be able to do this with Skype for Business.  - Taimoor
Jamie here.  Thanks for sharing this - I actually had not seen this before.  We have a robust internal tool &amp; process for taking in feedback on new features, changes to existing features, etc., that is triaged by Engineering on a regular basis.  A bunch of the features in this release (Call via Work, Video Interop, In-place upgrades) are a direct result of this process....but it isn't end-user facing - it's designed for our field teams to input data into.  I'll check out the process behind UserVoice and see how it's being used.  Thanks again!
Will calling Skype ID users work on Lync Server 2013 with the Skype for Business client, or do you need Skype for Business server?  I know the directory search of Skype users only works with the server. But what about if i already know the exact Skype ID?
Thanks! The most obvious use that I can think of is allowing Skype users to be able to join Skype Meetings (conference calls) and see video and presentation. It will allow external, non-s4b users to collaborate.
End to end?
Confirmed - Thanks Jason!  Jamie
No it just came out in theaters I was at a pre screening of it last week, it was awful. It's a horror movie but the entire movie does take place on Skype like that's the whole *thing* about it why it's different. It's a good idea but they just implemented it poorly  Edit: [here's](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q72LWqCx3pc) the trailer if you want to check it out. I'm surprised you guys haven't heard of it! Great marketing opportunity. 
This will work!  - Taimoor
WHY HAVENT YOU UPDATED SKYPE API? WHY DOES THE NEW INTERFACE SUCK? WHY CANT WE CHANGE THEMES? WHY DO YOU HATE PEOPLE WITH BAD EYES? I could go on, but my wife has to use skype everyday, and these are her questions.  TL;DR, You're new UI is killing my wife, and consequently, me.  ?
Skype has been very reluctant to open up as a platform. Facebook Messenger just started this effort, do you think it will be advantageous to them?
On #2 - I'm on an IM thread with Taimoor and can resize....weird that you're seeing this.  Thanks for the heads up.  Jamie
At my company, we just got upgraded to Lync 2013 and.... It freezes constantly when I have a user sharing their screen with me. Is this a known issue and how can I fix that? Also, the delay when you receive a new message is pretty annoying. As in, I see someone wrote to me, but if I don't click on the popup and instead click on the chat itself, there's about a 15-30 second delay before I see the actual text.
What is your recommended SBC for integrating with CUCM?  Why isn't CUCM integration directly supported anymore?  
Hey Kevin!  Good seeing you here, bummed we missed each other at EC.    And yeah, our social team agrees and thanks you so much.  Hope things are well with you! Jamie
Why pulseaudio? 
Not yet, should be out in the next couple weeks.
Hello!  Have you fixed the problem with conference meetings where you cannot be logged in twice?  For example: Currently, if I log into a conference meeting on my Surface, I can't simultaneously be logged into the meeting from my laptop. Is this fixed, now, so that I can log in from both?
Why does the icon in the Start Menu look like a Lync icon, but when you pin it to the Taskbar it is a Skype icon?
Well I'd firstly like to see more ease of use. I'd say 90% of the time my clients attempt to have Lync Meetings with outside parties, I get a call regarding an external user trying to join a Lync meeting.   I've had clients stop using Lync for external meetings and use GoToMeeting because it's easier, and it kills me inside.  Whether it's the plugin wont download or it won't launch in their browser. This goes back to my Skype integration question. Most people have Skype and would find it *much* easier to join using that.
Dude, im so upset about the red headed step child treatment of WP from skype, from MS no less. Sorry, don't mean to deuce on your big launch day, but as a long time WP user, your support for WP has long passed frustrating and moved right into bumming me out. 
When does support for animated gifs happen?
For your first question, while I think its targeted mainly at Skype, I don't think Skype for Business has the same perception. Whether its on premise or from our cloud, the infrastructure is well understood and we have documented the call and media flows very extensively. I don't think there should be any mystery on how it operates and what control IT departments need to ensure it meets their levels of scrutiny  I cannot comment on Skype for Linux at the moment. I am not aware of their plans to support the community of Linux users.  - Taimoor
Any plans for the ps3? Or is that a no...?
This is definitely beyond the limits of our testing....and there's just been an untold number of changes on the wire between then and now.  That poor server.    So yeah, I don't think there's a workaround.  I mean, you can crack open logs and see where registration is going sideways but I think it's time to upgrade.  It's nearly eight years old now.  I remember launching 2007 in SF.  I feel old now..... Jamie
this doesn't work today
This partitional rebranding is really hurting us.    Users applied patches and now a core Office application (Lync) is gone.  Searching for Lync no longer finds the application!  They have to somehow know to look for Skype instead.  We don't allow Skype on our corporate internal network so users are freaking that their computer is not in compliance.  If  Skype does start they are asked if the want to "Restart Now"... of course most users assume this will restart their computer!  The Lync GUI comes up with different sounds, emoticons and change application name in the taskbar.  You guys had said we would be in control of this release... we were not!  We are in damage control now.  Please try to work with us and not against us!!!  Please!
[deleted]
[deleted]
Indeed. Although those users can do that today, using the amazing Lync web app! They can be fully functional participants through a browser.  But we hear you :)  - Taimoor
My company recently mandated the use of Lync 2013 (literally last week), but so far my team has had a horrible experience with group conversations.  They aren't managed as cleanly as Skype's ability to save a group of people as a "favorite contact", which makes recalling past discussions difficult.  Has this been addressed in S4B, or are there plans to?  The "conversations" tab seems to track conversations in a sporadic and unpredictable manner.  We would really like to be able to have our group maintain a single conversation that can be recalled at any time with full history, just like we did previously with Skype.
In what ways is Skype for Business going to integrate Bing search?
How about that Lync?
"I can't confirm or deny the sexual assault accusations, but I will say her pussy smelled like rotting frogs" 
agreed! haha
Who are you using for your CDN?
Why is it so hard to get Skype to quit?  Even Scott Adams made a cartoon about this, and has spoken in public about it.  You people ignore "taskkill /f"?  What possible justification could you have for doing that?
Really, if I wanted to hear corporate ~~bullshit~~ speak I'd pay attention to my own job instead of browsing reddit. This is a a lot  words that don't answer anything...
Good to hear.  I can not wait for them for use in schools.  I love getting the newest tech into the hands of the kids I teach.  They are loving the occulus rift right now.
Why should a company trust a company that has backdoors installed for government agencies? I'd be too scared that my business secrets are no secret anymore, especially if you have a foreign company.
I am looking to dial into a conference bridge. Many of our meeting notices are already formatted with the commas so phone users can dial correctly.
Clearly that's next now that we have the graph search and SkypeID support in place with Skype for Business.  Precisely how it's going to be done is still a work in progress, as is the timing.  Remember that Skype users can join conferences pretty simply using the Skype for Business Web App (the web app formerly known as LWA...) either as a guest or authenticated user.
Agreed. is S4B ok? Give us more suggestions :)  - Taimoor
This!  It sucks to have to reboot just to restart Skype.
Can I have a job?
when will it be able to host more than 250 attendees? this has been a big issue for a long time and the Lync team has been promising this for over 5 years but still nothing. Seems like a company as large as microsoft would like to be able to at least host large attendee counts for its own benefit as well as a selling point for other businesses. 
I've been lucky to work with Surface Hub up close - face to face with an 82' piece of glass is just crazy.  Please don't pass up an opportunity to check it out.  Jamie
&gt; Security is a big reason why enterprises and public sector companies look to Skype for Business for their communication needs.  Haha, security was never an issue for Skype. It's still easily possible to find out Ip addresses for example
[deleted]
How are clientside keys generated, and do you or any government agencies have the ability to obtain those keys from the client?   [This article indicates NSA has full access to Skype voice and chat](http://news.softpedia.com/news/Leaked-Documents-Shows-the-NSA-Had-Full-Access-to-Skype-Chats-468691.shtml).  Is your business service actually secure, unlike your consumer service, or is it the same stuff?
People don't really respond well to obvious bias.  Microsoft has lots of competition and it would be humble to just be honest about it.
Certainly! And at various different price points. The roundtables have been great devices in doing this for a long time. External Participants can pretty much use any video device they prefer and come in as an anonymous user over the web and use that device for high quality video.   - Taimoor
Why did you have to buy Skype and make it shitty? :(
Not at the moment, Sorry.  - Taimoor
We currently use skype for our business - managing numbers etc via the skype manager control panel. What's the real advantage to us switching to 'Skype for Business'? It seems like this is more for group chats/sharing files etc, but not much additional capability for phone/voice.   Also, any chance you guys will add things like IVR or call transferring capability?  
Well, you thought wrong. 
[deleted]
Don't be bummed out. I own three windows phones at the moment, and I can tell you, Better things are coming.  - Taimoor
Really?  Seriously, I _rely_ on the WP client every day during a 75 minute commute (each way) on the lovely King County transit system - joining conf calls, viewing presentations, etc.  The Lync Mobile client has been flawless for me.  Consistently.  Jamie
they just want to keep their spying tool running
I am a freelance tech/educator. Many of my clients have been contacted over Skype by "Microsoft" technicians with heavy accents, in the classic 'your licence is broken' scam with the standard Team Viewer session to follow, in which documents are stolen and the computer password locked. Hours of time, hundreds of dollars, and endless harassing phone calls, sometimes several per day, are being borne by the least technical among us.  What are you doing to stop this abuse of anonymity?
End to End.  - Taimoor
Have fun and all the best for the new release!   I'm just the regular joe who works in a company, so... can my manager or the it guy snoop in on my conversations in Skype without me knowing?
are you hiring product designers?
Absolutely.  There are a ton of deep technical sessions from our last conference that discuss our encryption, security, how we operate in corporate networks including QoS, DSCP, etc. - check it [here](http://aka.ms/lyncconf14)  Jamie
why oh why when using a mac do you have to click the speech bubble tag to be able to use text chat when on a call with someone. why not just have the chat open as the default setting? not only is it annoying to do on every conversation, but now it seems most new users dont know they can even use text chat whilst on a call!
What's it like working with the NSA?
I hear you. We aren't here to give you any of that. I honestly think that's more important. Without naming any other companies, we understand that there is competition out there and there are organizations that have similar products. My goal was only to highlight to you what we feel are differentiators and why we have a different case altogether.   Ask us a direct questions and we will try our best to answer.  - Taimoor
My company has been using Lync for internal communications for the last six months or so, and it's been absolutely horrendous. Messages often don't get delivered with no indication of delivery failure to the sender, connections drop frequently, highlighting text from chat windows to copy/paste it is a pain, etc. In fact, members of my department have been breaking company policy and using Skype to communicate during business hours, just because getting yelled at by bosses is preferable to dealing with Lync.  Are you aware of these kinds of issues? Is Lync to blame here, or is my company's IT department incompetent and didn't set things up correctly?
Is Skype for Business going to deal with remote workers in a more efficient manner? We love Lync, but remote worker support and quality is pretty awful unless they have an A+ Internet connection.
Is this update for O365 tenants only or will it be released for Office 2013?
skype used to be p2p, and was only a few megs, and worked flawlessly. it used to quietly occupy only a tiny amount of screen space, and had only relevant information shown. now it's a gallumphing derigible of a program, using hundreds of megs of ram,with ads, that cannot be made smaller unless i do a bit of hackery. according to wikipedia, microsoft servers were shown to be monitoring skype messages, when they used to be encrypted from end to end. my question for you is, is there anything you guys *can't* fuck up?
How about Skype for Personal Use at Work?
they're really not, though. you got a windows phone on purpose? the phone is your sentence.
[deleted]
I'd like to use Skype from my Chromebook. Any web-only plans?
Thanks for answering all the questions as honestly as possible!    This AMA went way better then some of MS's previous engagements, and working the crowd while not giving out secrets is not easy.
How do you do this?  If i try to add a Skype contact the prompt needs an IM-address with an @ sign.
So with my computer using windows 8.1, I have consistent connection issues when making or receiving calls. I've tried everything I can think of, but the problem persists. Are you aware of this issue and do you know if there's a fix for it?
&gt; What is your biggest compitetion right now?  As someone who is about to switch from an internal Lync 2013 deployment, I'd say solutions like Shoretel.
Well, whether it's actually coming or not, here's one user that's still waiting for it to arrive.
Just a quick tip, if you're not comfortable answering a simple, direct question (such as "what's your biggest competitor"), you should just keep quiet, instead of spilling corporate babblegabble.
Will it be possible to add pure Skype contacts (without and not linked to a Live ID) to Skype for Business? It was not possible with Lync 2013 and I would love to see that possibility.
This isn't the first time we've heard this feedback, obviously.  I've always talked about how we look at the utility of the network as a function of the number of connected endpoints.  Pure Metcalf.  I really don't care what OS those devices run if they can make Skype for Business a better network - whether it's WebRTC, Android, VDI terminals, etc.    Can't make a specific comment on the plans at this time.  If you're a Microsoft customer today, reach out to your account team and ask their Lync / UC savvy person to include your feedback into the "Skype Experience Engine" - our feedback / new feature collection tool.  Or hit me up offline.  Jamie
I really wish I could send Jamie some more cats!  - Taimoor
Will there ever be a platform that will allow high bitrate audio to be transmitted rather than the 64kbps that seems to be standard?  I'd pretty much kill to have 320kbps codecs as an option when chatting with people.
Admins know what they want to do. Users don't. This feature is for the stupid users.
Besides the new UI, what differences/improvements can Lync Online customers experience today (a.k.a right now)?
So a right click on the icon I the notification tray and quit doesn't work for you?
What OS are you working with ?  Will Skype on Linux will ever get some love ?
This behavior is that of the Overly Attached girlfriend - I tell you to leave - you sit on my lawn singing love songs, annoying me and my neighbors. Its poor design, It breaks standard, and it makes it more frustrating for the end users. You don't know how many tickets I've received because of this little annoyance. The close button means close this application. If your going to do crap like this at LEAST close to the tray.... closing to the task bar is ridiculous.  
My skype account doesn't have a username and I can't add one.  This is incredibly annoying but I have 20 credit so don't want to abandon it.  How can I add a username to my account?
What's your stand on Internet neutrality?  Specifically in developing countries in India. We have seen here that your sister Bing is violating it. So wanted to know your stance. 
literally only bullshit responses to a very straightforward question. 
I won't waste bits explaining why the design exists today, I'm sure you've heard it before.  Feedback received.  I'll pass it on.  Jamie
[deleted]
How much did MS pay Reddit to have this AMA?
This is what our customers are dealing with as well.  This rebranding we found is more painful then just updating the client.  If they wanted admins to have control we should have had the option to just stop the update from an organizational level.  To have the logo's, name, and meetings change, while we keep the old UI makes no sense.  Also, not having the Mac or Mobile apps ready and no firm dates given is even more disruptive.   I without a doubt believe S4B/Lync is the best UC platform on the market, but the way this roll out was handled is very frustrating
Are you hiring?
[deleted]
this, a hundred times this. At least make it an option.
Count yourself lucky!  Our users are still on Lync 2010 lol
Why did you get rid of the Captain America 2 emojis? Rude.
I really want to understand this sentance. 
A few questions:    1. Why can't I send files through lync in my organization?     2. Lync SharePoint integration?    3. Lync maintaining file versions as sent by people with tracking of changes made?
This!  By refusing to quit when the user closes the program, that makes this attempt at chat garbage a virus.  It is a virus.
in 1995
Skype latest version is 7.3 or so, right?  On my Ubuntu machine, I have v4.3. Four point three, for god's sake. Why.
Can't speak for Skype Consumer.  And even if I could, our lead council speaks much better than I ever could - [check it](http://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2015/04/09/our-legal-challenge-to-a-us-government-search-warrant/)  Skype for Business is completely different.  We are based on your AD auth &amp; PKI infrastructure.  If you trust your domain security, you should trust Skype for Business.
Why does it feel like since the week your team took control of Skype, performance and call qualities have never been as good as before the acquisition? Even with two years of 'improvements'?
Did Microsoft remove encryption from Skype?
Skype for Business is a very open platform with well documented API's. Our customers are doing fantastic things with it, like Video Kiosks, Telemedicine, Remote advisors etc. I think communicating in context with Business applications is super important.  - Taimoor
I'm not sure if you guys can answer this but I remember in the past when in a Skype group call you could see who was hosting the call without being in the call. In recent versions you cant see who is in the call unless you pick up. Do you know why this feature was removed or if it will come back?
I will start off by saying Skype is generally one of the highest quality VoIP apps out there, and for years has filled a need that few others were able to fill.  That said there are serious reservations about its use, based in part on Microsoft's cooperation with regimes such as China's, and their past willingness to provide backdoor access to Skype data (ie, TOM Skype, which monitors skype for blacklisted words and reports back to the CPC).  With all of that said, what assurance is there that Skype for Business is not similarly backdoored?
Both these issues don't seem right. Have you tried working through support channels?  - Taimoor
Is the desktop sharing going to be as useless for remote support as the one in Lync currently or has something been done to address the inability to interact with administrative windows?   We currently have to use two products to get both communication and remote support because administrative tasks simply can't be performed over Lync as it currently is.    Second, in Skype for desktop, the ability to set it not to start with Windows requires you to be logged in. Is there any in both Skype for desktop and business to disable automatic starting without having to   1. Login to Skype   2. Use msconfig to take it out of the startup
How can I get better sound via skype when recording podcasts?  I need moar quality.  My connection is already 300mbps down. Some guests are fine, some terrible.   I can't overburden guests with a lot of extra steps.  Any tricks?
Given my job is looking after the voice &amp; networking components of Lync &amp; Skype for Business, I'm genuinely interested in why.  Would love to hear what the reasoning is if you can share, either here or offline.  Thanks in advance. Jamie
CUCM integration is indeed supported directly for qualified versions of CUCM. We don't necessarily recommend a particular SBC as we have so many that we qualify on our [interoperability page](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dn788945)
&gt; Given my job is looking after the voice &amp; networking components of Lync &amp; Skype for Business, I'm genuinely interested in why. Would love to hear what the reasoning is if you can share, either here or offline. &gt; Thanks in advance. Jamie  See my other post about remote worker quality.
There is a button to minimize, and one to close. If you are really concerned about mistakes, do it like all other apps and have a "do you want to quit?" dialog.
Congratulations on the amazing job you've done, I've been an OCS/Lync/Skype4B architect since 2005 and every release gets better and better.  My question is, will the new CU updates finally apply the db backend updates automatically? Reason for this is that -although it doesn't bother me- some customers just go with Microsoft Update and blindfolds on, apply the Lync Server CUs and don't even know there's a backend to patch there.
What's the best way to do that Jamie?
This is possibly the worst AMA I have ever seen. This is more 'Ramparty' than the Rampart AMA.  "Hey, is Skype going to work on my phone?"  "Skype is an agile, scalable, intuitive, synergistic, web-scale, moonshotful, beautiful, awe-inspiringly orgasmic special snowflake that was delivered by the gods themselves to us mere mortals - bask in its glory!"  "Uhh, ok... so, no? I guess different question, what do you all like to do outside of work?"  "We all love to use our Microsoft Skype for Business Enterprise Edition clients to speak to other consumers of Microsoft Skype for Business Enterprise Edition! Sometimes I use Microsoft Skype for Business Enterprise Edition so much that I forget it's time to get back to working on Microsoft Skype for Business Enterprise Edition! I literally (not figuratively!) just can't imagine what my life would be like without Microsoft Skype for Business Enterprise Edition!"
Could you tell me a bit more on the use case for this. Specifically, where would you like your Audio/Video/Sharing stream to be. If you do have a reason for both, you can always login using the Web App and use a separate identity for it.  - Taimoor
why did you disable (hollest)?  It was my favorite?
Can you imagine trying to run an enterprise-scale business where your staff can cut off your ability to easily contact them by accidentally closing a program? It would be hell.
[deleted]
Hey Skype for Business! I can't help but notice my start menu had illuminated as if something new was installed.. I haven't done any updates or installed anything new, yet all of the sudden, the ONLY item highlighted in 'Office Tools' was Skype for Business Recording Manager... How did you guys get that installed on my machine?
So what does skype premium do now?
NOW!  There are a ton in the client.  Based on an informal poll, the Ninja is the favorite of folks.  Download the preview and check it out, or upgrade if you're on 2013..... Jamie
Why are file transfers so slow?
When you hit X on steam, it doesn't close completely, same with origin. Just how it used to be with MSN and all the other IMs. It's completely valid for it to work like this.
rekt 
Skype for Business doesn't have vouchers I'm afraid!
Nice read, Velma
You need to be on a Skype for Business Server back-end or on an upgraded tenant in Office365.  Soon. - Jamie
This feature is called persistent chat and is available for Lync and Skype for Business Server.  - Taimoor
Probably AIM.  It's still the 90's right?
Indeed!
&gt; You people ignore "taskkill /f"? What possible justification could you have for doing that?  Would really like to see you answer this question instead of dodge it. 
Why don't we hound on steam for this? Or Origin, or torrent programs? Or instant messaging programs (which this is one of).
This seems to be the typical Microsoft mentality and it has led me to abandon MS word and Excel because I spend too much time fighting its automatic functionality. When there are quick an easy alternatives from the likes of Google, there's no reason for me to research how to make Microsoft products function as I'd expect (if that's even possible).   
&gt; This is consistent with the Skype consumer app as well.   Yea, it is consistently wrong...
No change to the plans here.  Plus, check out the announcement we made regarding the Roundtable 100 with Polycom.  CEO was onstage with us at Enterprise Connect - that device is smoking hot.  Jamie
Id encourage you to look at our career portals and if something interest you. Apply. I still cant believe they hired me!  - Taimoor
Why is it so hard to find recent conversations?  They are frequently not saved to conversation history.  When will I be able to use my o365 account to log into Skype on my phone?
your company's IT department
So what you are saying is that Taimoor is wrong? Even if i know the exact Skype ID of a Skype user, and does not need to search for him in the directory, i cannot add him as long as i am running Skype for Business on Lync Server 2013?
please do i have these exact same issues. The client isn't as responsive as it used to be, LOTS of bugfixing needs to be done.
Starks or Lanisters?
What about change look of Skype ?
Same question. I have two contacts who still only run on their old skype accounts and they are permanently displayed as "Offline" and they are unable to add me, despite correct DNS configuration explained in the Office 365 Admin Portal.
How do you feel about the fact that I read Microsoft lync as Microsoft lynch? Is that why the name was changed?
Lync Server can host conferences of 250 users out of the box, and with 1,000 users with some planning. We have not yet released our full scalability numbers on Skype for Business Server so stay tuned for that.  We will be making some announcements at Ignite in a couple of weeks with some additional details. I would definitely check it out.  - Taimoor
How does your "universal translator" work exactly and when will it be released to the public?
I'm so, so sorry to hear this.  We put a ton of information out there through the channels we have but this was always our biggest concern.  There's a ton of information on how to control your deployment - start [here](http://blogs.office.com/2015/04/14/skype-for-business-is-here/?linkId=13532044) - Jamie
Why doesn't the X close Skype?
I often have meetings that I create in Outlook (currently with Lync). Sometimes, I have meetings where I use 1 computer to display to in-room participants via HDMI, as well as to remote participants via the display UI, while the other I want to use to monitor the call - mute/unmute, handle questions, etc. I can't just have one in Extended mode - I need to have both the laptop and the Surface running.   Currently, I cannot do this, as I can only be logged in once, and the web app doesn't allow me to sign in as a guest while retaining admin control of the meeting (mute/unmute, etc.)  So, did you fix this with Skype for Business, so that I can log in twice, or have some other work around in place?
I'm a starks person frankly. I am interested to see what happens with Aria. She is quite determined. Incidentally Jamie's last name is Stark, so I think we know where his loyalties lie!  - Taimoor
I stopped using Microsoft for personal instant messaging when Messenger was discontinued.   I tried Skype, but seemed to be unable to handle sending and then effectively delivering a message if the receiver is offline at the moment it was sent. Sending a message "now" and then going offline expecting the other person receives it when they go online is a primary use case for me.   We use Lync at work and it seems to also have similar difficulties with offline; why would anyone who has had these sort of issues want to re-consider Skype?  
In an enterprise setting I'd like to think that any sane admin would realise allowing standard users to close Lync is a bad, bad, bad idea. Let them accidentally cut off their communication channel with management/clients by pushing one close button? Sounds super smart, right?
I don't think it had anything to do with it. But I'm glad you don't have to deal with that anymore.  - Taimoor
Does Skype for business have a built in recording feature? Does that recording feature have the ability to be in stereo and mono? How much does using Skype Business cost?
All O365 customers should be transitioned by the end of May - Jamie
Do you believe that this is the way of the future or will something take over? 
Please no. Keep it how it is. Spotify did this, and it fucked with me so bad. I always click the X to minimize Skype/Spotify, because I'm used to it. And then one day they decide to make it ACTUALLY CLOSE the program. Out of habit, this causes me to accidentally close Spotify all the time now.  Edit: Sorry I'm used to clicking the same button I've always used on a program for 5 years, I guess
Would you rather work for Apple?
Are their any plans on merging Skype for Business with OneDrive for Business to spawn an application that might be worthy of the enterprise? May I suggest a name for this? SkypeDrive For Enterprise.
[deleted]
Since they're probably tired of explaining it:  * A tech-savvy user knows to right click Skype on the task bar and select "Quit Skype." This closes Skype completely with no additional prompts. * An unsavvy user, the sort that is becoming an *extremely* common user type in modern times, will find it less frustrating if Skype is capable of receiving calls from others at any time. * This sort of user will never notice that Skype is using a tiny amount of resources in the background, since that user probably has ninety thousand toolbars installed, among other proprietary bloatware and worthless antivirus software. * Some such users may have learned to "X out" of a program when they're done with it, and this is one of the first commonly taught things. * Any design decision that reduces tech support correspondence with technophobe/neophyte/unskilled users is a reasonable one. The exception to this is the Metro style interface. That should be killed.
Across the board we have made improvements on conversation history and syncing on devices in Skype for Business  You should be able to login to your O365 account using the Lync client app or the S4B app.  - Taimoor
Physics?  - Taimoor
Ha!  Hi Matt!! Jamie
Is it on your roadmap to support drag-and-drop or copy-paste images and animated gifs in the chat UI?  (i.e. showing the image in the chat window rather than showing it as an attached document).    A properly timed animated gif is far more impactful for expressing emotion than new emoticons :)
1.)  Ones that are tested &amp; qualified: http://technet.microsoft.com/UCOIP  2.)  That's incorrect.  CUCM integration continues to be fully supported, just like any other Direct SIP integration.  Jamie
&gt;Then we did a bunch of deep back-end work  Heh
[deleted]
That is far and away the most annoying thing about Lync. I actually think it's a nice program but I really hate that, by default, you get an uncloseable task sitting on your task bar. Every day I got a little more annoyed at that simple but blatantly wrong flaw. Every other monitoring service manages to live in the notification area, why can't Lync?  As a general PSA, there is an option to make it close to the notification area. "Tools &gt; Options &gt; General" at the very bottom of the "general" section, you can select "Minimize to the notification area instead of the task bar". Not that this excuses Lync's default design flaws, but it saved me a lot of aggravation after I found it.
"Users applied patches" There's your problem.
What does the VDI support roadmap look like in the future for Skype for Business?
We unfortunately cannot get around the Security controls of windows.   Good feedback about the second point. Ill take a note...  - Taimoor
When will Microsoft office suite offer darker colors for themes? The "dark grey" isn't even dark...
[deleted]
Why can you use skype to find out someone's IP address? It seems like a terrible oversight.
Um....look at the architecture of Skype for Business, how we do Auth, how we do encryption, how we work with your AD - [start here](http://aka.ms/lyncconf14) .....we take security very, very seriously.  If we didn't, there's no way we could reasonably sell to the fortune 1k. Jamie
He's saying you're an idiot for buying a Windows Phone on purpose. Which makes him an idiot, because Windows Phone is quite nice. Too bad even Microsoft won't support it ...
Skype for Business (formerly Lync) is an enterprise grade and non consumer orientated product. It relies on premise infrastructure or out of the Microsoft public cloud (O365) and we take these matters very seriously. Organizations privacy and data is critical to our success.  - Taimoor
When will we Kinect sold as a package built for conference rooms?
&gt;We unfortunately cannot get around the Security controls of windows.   How then can other legitimate products such as TeamViewer do it?
1. This is most likely limited by your administrator 2. Its there. What would you like to see. 3. That's what SharePoint is there for as a document management platform.  - Taimoor
&gt;I won't waste bits explaining why the design exists today, I'm sure you've heard it before.  No, we haven't heard it before.  You've been completely silent on the issue.  **PLEASE WASTE BITS EXPLAINING WHY THE DESIGN EXISTS TODAY**.
Why is skype such a laggy, heavy, intensive mess?  it ranks up there in horribly made programs imo. 
Lync needs to stay up for Enterprise usage, but Skype...please. Make it close when I hit X. Don't make a minimize button and an X when they do the same thing. You know what you are doing...
[deleted]
&gt; We are based on your AD auth &amp; PKI infrastructure.  Am I right in understanding that Skype4B's security model is based on your trust in your certificate authority?  Sounds like Certificate Authorities (and anyone who can get access to their root certs, read NSA) can probably generate new valid keys and snoop.   
You will have this working when you upgrade to Skype for Business server and/or your tenant gets updated (if you're online).   The 2013 server doesn't know how to process Skype IDs, just MSAs.  We've added this to the next rev of the server though.
At the moment, none. But when the backend is also updated.. then plenty!  - Taimoor
Skype for Business is completely different architecture than consumer Skype. As such, security is much better as per comments and links above.
Will you add some sort of dark mode to skype in the near feature? Personally the bright white is killing my eyes at night.
ITT: people confusing "Skype for Business" (aka, "Lync renamed") with "Skype".  The complaint is for the latter. WP originally had Messenger integrated into its messaging app.  Then Microsoft killed Messenger and told everybody to use Skype, but never built Skype into the messaging app.  That, and the Skype app on WP is pretty much crap compared to [other mobile platforms](http://www.theverge.com/2014/11/13/7213489/microsoft-leaves-windows-users-in-the-cold).
Question: why did you rollout the "Skype for Business Client" as a hotfix to the existing Lync 2013 Client instead of as it's own v.next stand-alone client? Reason I ask, the user experience impact of deploying it in such a way is not ideal due to it being pushed like a hotfix and having users have to see it before the Skype for Business Server is even available and planned to be pushed by IT. It's a mess.
You completely dodged the first question. Well done.
Will there be chess and other fun games like msn? 
Are conversations from SFB to consumer Skype HIPAA compliant?  
They won't.
May I answer that for you? Office 365 tenants who are entitled to use Lync 2013 will receive the upgrade to Skype for Business. For everybody else Skype for Business is available at http://www.skype.com/en/business/
THIS.  I'm tired of Microsoft conveniently forgetting about their OWN mobile platform when it comes to apps. Skype has been next to useless ever since I got my Windows Phone, yet they push out updates all the time for iOS/Android. WHY, MICROSOFT? You're the only good mobile platform out there, but the lack of support of your own apps makes it hard to get people to enjoy it. Maybe if you update your own software for your own OS more often, app developers would follow suit and we wouldn't have problems like the whole Snapchat thing. :(  I WP so much, but sometimes I get tempted to go back to the slow POS called Android just because you guys at least keep your stuff up to date with them!
Question 2: When is the "Skype for Business Client" coming out for MAC OS-X? A date, not a "in 6 months maybe" if you can clarify. Thanks!
As someone who has developed UC Strategies for many enterprises and deployed multiple large UC systems (Lync and not Lync) I am curious what drove your decision to switch from Lync 2013?  In my experience, the product is solid for those organizations who are looking for true UC (hence the great adoption and growth) but sometimes implementations are screwed up by teams that lack experience.  What happened in your case?
So basically Skype is insecure but Skype for Business is not.
Honestly, I don't think this is an issue with Windows 8.1 or Skype. That might just be your network configuration.
I wouldn't consider it a waste if you don't mind. Having the Lync client stuck on my task bar is, by a huge margin, the most annoying aspect of the program. I'd be interested to hear the reasoning behind that straight from the horses mouth.  As a general PSA, there is an option to make it close to the notification area. "Tools &gt; Options &gt; General" at the very bottom of the "general" section, you can select "Minimize to the notification area instead of the task bar". Not that this excuses Lync's default design flaws, but it saved me a lot of aggravation after I found it.
lync doesn't support gifs...
Are there any plans to support Altigen VoIP phones?
[deleted]
Honestly in my experience, Cisco at the high end and Hangouts at the low end.  I've attended more conferences on Hangouts than any other platform.
Piggybacking on the top comment to reply to /u/TheG-What and anyone else who hates this.  There is a workaround to this annoying feature.  Browse to: C:\Program Files\Skype\Phone, look for Skype.exe, right click and open properties.   Change to the "Compatibility" tab and check the "Run this program in compatibility mode for:" and select "Windows Xp (Service Pack 3).  This will allow Skype to ran fully closed and only be active/shown as an icon in the taskbar, not as a minimized window. 
That's what I thought he was getting at, but didn't want to jump to conclusions. Either his anger affected his typing or English is not his first language.
[deleted]
But nothing has been tested since CUCM 8.6.2?  Would newer versions still be supported?  
I assume he meant "sentence" as in "prison sentence", as in that's your punishment for choosing WP.
I'm curious why the MSN protocol was deprecated in favour of Skype?  I have used both extensively for years and MSN's video protocol, reliability, stability, and UI were always much higher quality than Skype's.  Seems you killed the good product and migrated everyone over to the questionable one?  I am forced to use Skype daily still (where we used MSN) and it continues to drop calls multiple times per day with choppy video quality.
As a former Enterprise Admin, I'd much rather be given an option of doing what I think is best for the Company, not someone at Microsoft (or any other company). So give me the option via a central admin console or a Group Policy.
Perhaps. FTP Traffic between two hosts happens near the ISPs provisioned speed. File transfers with reep.io work the same.  File transfers via Skype are slower than dial up. In some cases, at a few hundred bits per second. No where near the 15 mpbs.   I haven't had the time to crack out wireshark, but perhaps Skype does not support windows scaling. I was hoping it would be a simple answer having to do with the p2p nature of Skype.
Thank you, it's always appreciated.
Wrong product, you are thinking of Skype. 
If you are at work, assume the answer is always "Yes".  
Yo, I don't care about any of this business stuff, but I downloaded Skype last night so I could show off my beast to m'ladies.    Anyway, Skype needs a better search function to find contacts.  Could you make it so we could search by location, gender, and age?  I'm pretty particular about who I show my wang to (only females!).  Thanks.
My users are most confused about the staggered update, as am I. Right now, we're running Skype for Business on our computers, Lync 2013 on our phones, and the Office 365 update isn't even complete online.   In the future, could you try to push for the update Office 365 first so that all of the new features are available and then issue the Lync client updates and mobile application updates at the same time?
Wrong product, you are thinking of Skype. 
Wrong product, you are thinking of Skype. 
The information said we could control the release.  The icon/name change of the entire application was/is outside our control.  We're now stopping the Lync patches from being deployed so that we can get some kind of communication out to users... we need to help stop the numerous calls to our helpdesk.
Your account was created at the same time as this AMA. Nice try Microsoft Employee.   
Can easily make it a toggle.
So annoying. Spotify did this forever but finally changed it so hitting X actually closes the freaking program. Why would I need **TWO** minimize buttons? 
Hi. I'm looking to get certified in Lync/S4B in the next 6months. Any idea when the exams will be released, and is there a significant difference in the backend server architecture between Lync 2013 &amp; S4B that would make my Lync knowledge redundant? Thanks.
I said that in a way that gifs were already outdated in early 2000s.
answer: they need to keep spying
Thanks for the clarification!
Maybe you should do things the right way.
Skype is in the name, unless I read it incorrectly. I must be totally in the wrong and I'm sure this issue will never come up. (sigh)   Are you just unwilling to expose yourself to liability? Is this supposed to be only an advertising opportunity?  I am asking you anything, and am concerned about exploitation of your services by criminals. No input from you?    
ahhh gotcha.  damn letters not throwing sarcasm in my face!
[deleted]
[deleted]
Many big companies still don't care enough about security, e.g. Sony hack last fall. Fortunately, there's a slow change, and many US companies are very worried about their businesses in Europe and Asia.   However, there's still much work to do to educate people and businesses to stay away from companies like Microsoft. These closed source products by companies who work so closely with the NSA can not be trusted at all.
Then add a toggle for the non-stupid users.
In other words, fuck the normal folks, and pretend to care about the ones with money. Scum.
At this point, Skype and Skype For Business are two different products.     I don't have access to Skype at this moment, but I *believe* you can go to Help &gt; Give Feeback.
Could an emoticon of a man making a gun with his hand and winking be added? This would save me much communication errors. 
So you guys removed the inking feature from the desktop version of Lync for the 2013 iteration, will you be adding that back into skype for business? It was extremely useful for sending quick diagrams to teammates with my Wacom graphics tablet, which isn't really supported in Lync 2013 (even the whiteboard support for it sucks, no pressure sensitivity and it always detects strokes way past the point that I have lifted the stylus) while it worked fine in Lync 2010.   Plus, ever since my company upgraded to Lync 2013 I haven't been able to make gems such as this:   http://frequentcontacts.blogspot.com/2014/12/frequent-contacts-18.html  Also, will I be able to be logged in on my personal skype account as well as my business account on the same machine at the same time?  Thanks for taking the time to answer questions!
Will Skype for Business be able to have SIP or H.323 devices call into a Video Conference Session.  Also is there a way to have outside members such as contractors or guest speakers access to come into our system without them having to get skype for business themselves?
[deleted]
I'll be there.
Thats more of an availability thing in your example
I agree with nutmeg_soda. The WP Lync 2013 client mostly works but has had several major bugs that have persisted for months (one for over a year).  1: The Lync client EATS MESSAGES STILL. I get a toast, click the toast, and Lync fails to load the conversation and I can no longer get that message again on any device. This bug has been around for A LONG TIME, and I believe I have reported it and it has never been fixed.  2: If I go to a contact in my organization and click IM or call, about 10% of the time it will call or open an IM window with some other random person in my organization. If I go back then click the IM icon again it goes to the right person. You can clearly see I selected the right person the first time because the 4 icons were expanded. Almost behaves like an uninitialized variable is used.  3: On Lumia Icon after the latest Denim update, I get extremely strange high pitched noises coming from the phone speaker when joining or hanging up from calls. I get garbled sounds from Lync. The Lync client may cause all phone sounds other than Lync to stop working if I get notifications while the phone is on a Lync presentation and I get a WP notification. Even the buttons stop vibrating with feedback. I have also had the Lync client cause the phone to restart once.  The Lumia Denim update on the Icon has been such an unstable, buggy mess that I am most likely going to have to buy an Android device soon. This was my 3rd Windows Phone and I am extremely disappointed in all. I know that your team has nothing to do with anything but the Lync client, just voicing my frustrations.
Then it would behave differently on different systems, which is like the very first thing they teach you not to do in UX design lessons.
That's not even my main beef with programs like Skype. If I'm going as far as to go to File -&gt; Close. I want the damn thing to close! If I wanted it minimized, I would have, you know, minimized it. 
Why is skype integrated so poorly in windows phones?  Back when I used windows phone 7.5, facebook had great integration with the messaging app(except for group messages which didnt work). If someone sent me a facebook message it would pop up in my messaging app. I could also choose to sent my text by either phone or through facebook. At this time, skype was removed from the windows 7.5 store and was no longer allowed to be installed.    When I finally purchased a wp8 phone i was delighted to see skype was back in the store however it doesn't have any good integration into the phone. It is a completely separate app that is terrible at push notifications. Why doesn't this microsoft product have the same integration that facebook once had in wp7.5? I was incredibly dissapointed with it. I can understand why the facebook integration was removed from the phone(the way facebook works is even worse than before forcing you to use their messenger app which again doesn't work with group messages) but why didn't skype takes its place? 
Then why confirm the existence of the ios and android versions? I don't get it. Is it maybe because yall have completely neglected whatever pos WP version you're gonna come out with?
Then the close button for the program would behave differently on different systems and the user would have no way of knowing that. First thing they teach you not to do when you learn UX design principles.
I just don't understand really.  It's 2015 and my chat client takes about 20 seconds to boot, then, after it has already booted, it sometimes freezes for about another 10 seconds when I start a conversation with someone.  I still can't choose to ignore all calls from a group  I remember msn messenger being better in the 00s than this
8.6.2??? C'mon man! 10.5 minimum or get rekt. :) 
Can the I.T. people at my work view my skype messages?
Yep, you just made me remove Skype.
Although it isn't exactly what I had hoped you'd say, I thank you for taking the time to respond. 
8.6.2 was the last version Microsoft tested with Lync.    We're only on 9.1.2 though.. should be going to 10.5 in the fall.  
Why can't I mute certain people in a group call yet?
I would second his comment on usability from their side. Since we moved to Lync meetings, the only successful ones have been where the other side has Lync already. If they don't use it, then there are so many steps to install the plugin that the meeting starts 15 minutes late and everyone gives up.  Another frustrating experience is the Outlook Plugin. if I delete 'join Skype meeting', I will get an error that says "there was a problem with your meeting and we're fixing it", then it will replace it and send out the meeting immediately. I erased 'Join Skype Meeting' because I only wanted a phone conference and now I have phone conference information twice! 
Ask Me Anything*   ^* *^that* ^*I* ^*want* ^*to* ^*answer*
dozens!!!
Skype for Business for Mac. When is this going to be released?
It's too bad that isn't the mentality of the consumer Skype.  Who seem to think that customer security should be as low as possible.
Yeah the OIP program is a weird beast, requiring resources from the vendor to get certification, it is not on MSFT to certify them, way too many options.  If you look at what Cisco supports and what Microsoft supports, two different things.  Intra-domain federation works slick on Cisco CUCM IM/P 10.5 and Lync on prem, saw it this weak in action.  Tricky part is external B2B federation.  FYI Nextplane.net has a free 100 user federation SKU if you are a smaller shop... saves so much headache! 
Well, you're able to use Skype for **FREE**. If you don't like it, use something else, end of story.
I still run the last version before Skype moved to huge bubbles because of how wasteful the newest version is to my screen space. It's like 7 lines vs 17 lines in the same space!
Why does the copy-paste function on Lync never work correctly? I copy a sentence and it will copy things from days ago.
Mobile first cloud first Windows best.Or, y'know add the toggle on all platforms.
What do you think of arm Linux devices? Would Skype support them? What would the possibilities be?
Can Skype for Business be used for HIPAA compliant secure messaging (ie in a business that is a Covered Entity under HIPAA)?
Maybe you can mention and promote your products even more, just like in every other comment.
Why do you let the NSA et al into your programs? How do you sleep at night? 
I'm confused about this.  I just did `taskkill /f /im skype.exe` and the process is gone.
Will this be rolling out to Office 365 for Macintosh PCs as well as Windows clients?
Sure, I don't use it, but I still think it's important to inform others that it's not really free and you pay with security and privacy.
Is someone at Microsoft aware that ditching 'Lync' and using the 'Skype' name has immediately made it impossible for many sysadmins to convince their bosses they should purchase it? 
Thanks for your answer, but I am not sure there's much tangible in there.  Where can said documentation be found and how can we verify that no mechanisms for "lawful" interception or similar has been implemented as with normal Skype?
Why did you guys remove the "mute" option (/setrole username LISTENER)? and how come you guys wont let us chose the version of skype we want considering most of us dislike the new updates that comes?
[Are you guys forgetting that the NSA has worked with Microsoft before, requesting that they purposefully leave back-doors in their software to allow the NSA direct access?](http://techrights.org/2015/02/11/microsoft-back-doors/)  I mean, if you believe that is going on, does it really matter if Skype is encrypted end-to-end? They probably have the option to scoop the data before it's been encrypted, steal it in transit and remove the encryption, or just snag it from the end user after they've removed the encryption. 
I use skype on most of my devices, how come it's not on google chrome OS?
There are literally fourteen people who are excited for this application.
You don't like devs thinking you're too stupid to click the right button for your intended meaning?   SKYPE team I would like the end call button to order hookers. I didn't mean to end the call, I really just wanted to have some first class hookers sent to my house. Since you guys seem to be hip with the whole button-doesn't-do-what-you-think-it-does scheme, can you add the hooker button for me? Thanks.
You typed it correctly. Try adding a typo somewhere to the commands.
[deleted]
Yeah I guess both Cisco and MSFT don't think it's their problem to figure out which one works with the other.  They are competitors, after all.  
Not supporting Linux is ultimately harming your business.  Those of us on the software development side are often using Linux or Macs.  If we can't communicate with others in the company with skype, then another solution has to be picked, such as Google Hangouts, which typically the whole company switches to.  Skype for Linux keeps getting worse, even though Skype itself isn't updated.  For example receiving a screen share via Skype for Linux used to give you the remote screen.  Now you get a pixellated blocky barely comprehensible mess.  Similarly if the call leader for a group call shares visual content, Skype for Linux users won't see it.  Systems like skype depend on network effects.  Cutting off what seem like smaller portions of users ultimately has a far larger effect than just those users.
Sometimes, reaction gifs are the most entertaining moments at the office. I have a large collection that I can't use anymore.
Was that really your only reason for not wanting to use Spotify?
Considering the development focus has shifted towards the cloud, in this case the web app, I would bet my house that we will never see a native Linux client.   Support for web app access via Firefox on Linux wouldn't so much of a long shot. Safari is already supported on Mac OS   That said, Mac OS has something like 4/5% market share and the commercial desktop market share for Linux is likely to be less than 1%.   
[deleted]
So we received this update today, which to be honest was a bit of a surprise. My one gripe was that the UI design is changed instantly and then you are given the option to revert back. We didn't really explain to a lot of our users that Lync was actually Skype (yet), more planning is needed before we can introduce this project properly, so my question is: Besides not releasing the update is there a way to enforce the Lync UI upon the initial start up of the app without first displaying the new Skype UI and icon?
Are there any changes to the licensing when compared with Lync on premises?  Edit to add: What about hosted enterprise voice? How far are we away from that?
Competitors in this scenario yes, but I have experienced both companies do best effort in these grey areas.  It is unfortunate that IM interop has actually gotten worse over the years, not better.  
Why is it that when I make a chat window bigger in skype some absolute expletive of a developer decided to make more WHITE SPACE to fill in the larger window, rather than stretching text?  Did a design team sit down and say "You know what people like in large windows? _Wasted space._ Perfect."  Seriously guys, I hate to sound kinda cruel, but fuck. Who in the world made that decision? People make windows larger so that more stuff fits in it, not so they can stare at more blank space.
[deleted]
How so? If the behaviour is controlled through a central admin console then every client would get the same settings.  I would also imagine those same design principles would tell you not to fuck with what the expected behaviour of a button is. The close button should close the app, not minimize it.  
This is currently available for download/update from the O365 Portal as well.
Yes please don't forget about all 5 of them!
Why does every update make it worse and worse? We were using Skype for call in meetings and over the 3 or so years we uses it, reliability just went downhill.
Why does Skype look and work worse with every patch you release?  Fuck I wish it was never bought out.
No he didn't. Skype for Businesses is not the same Skype the original commentator is asking about. They are two completely separate products. Skype for Business = Lync 2015. The Lync infrastructure is very well documented and understood. The Skype for Business / Lync team has nothing to do with the consumer version of Skype.   /Lync sysadmin.
I'm not saying the content is outdated ; The image file format is.
You will find the pricing at http://www.skype.com/en/business/
Yep. That's the thing they don't want to tell you if they can avoid it.  Yet you should consider what benefits in return this kind of infrastructure can bring: cost saving, more flexible B2B communication, performance and reliability.  You can use that to get ahead of competition. So if knowledge is stolen and applied, you are already ahead on new markets. Further: what makes knowledge great are the people you have to apply it and in whos head it forns the bigger picture.  Extremely confidential information should not be shared in such a way anyways.
https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/gg398616(v=ocs.16).aspx
I'm in desktop support and I've reached out to our team that handles it. They don't have any idea.
Lync / Office is available for OSX.
What is an alternative?
If you're worried about that then don't use O365. Run Lync/Skype on premises with your own certificate authority. That's what I do.
What are the limitations on group conference calls?  Is there a cap on the number of connections?  Can SkypeFB users connect with standard Skype users?
any kind of video file
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6402633/what-alternatives-for-animated-gifs-are-there#6402656
You don't use Skype for business because it costs thousands of dollars and individuals don't purchase it, businesses do. And when you are using a work PC and Skype is your primary business communication tool you are expected to be logged in at all times.
The original commenter asked about "Skype", not "Skype for Business". And the rep didn't say anything to answer his question about it. Instead he shifted talking about "Skype for Business" and how its infrastructure is well understood. So then, what about "Skype"?
[deleted]
Yet still needs connections to ~200 IPs to send a single text message to one contact.
[deleted]
Thanks I will look into this more.  We have an E3 Enterprise subscription but our email and calendar are on google apps (don't ask) so we use google hangouts because no install or setup was needed.
Yep. That's the thing they don't want to tell you if they can avoid it.  Yet you should consider in return what benefits this kind of infrastructure can bring: cost saving, more flexible B2B communication, performance and reliability.  Until a competitor uses that knowledge, you'll be already on the market. Further the true power is not a single bit of information, but the employees who have a complete picture in their mind and a company structure that makes use of it with well performing teams.
My question centers around text messaging. While I understand there is Google Voice for free texting (at least in the US) why are Skype texts so expensive and are there plans to roll out unlimited texting packages? As a professional who is 100% mobile and maintains multiple numbers. It would be fantastic to simply buy a couple of Skype numbers (which work great incidentally) and have them be text friendly (unlike now). I know it's not a technology challenge, nor is it a monetary one since you can charge for it (but not the 2001 era .20 a text rate like the last time I checked).   You have an opportunity here to take advantage of Google's near abandonment of the Voice platform to do something innovative and make your product not only more appealing to businesses but normal consumers as well. Maybe create timed personas so calls to certain numbers (like your primary work, a number from a specific region, or your side business) automatically direct to Skype Voicemail at certain times, etc. So many possibilities. If you want more ideas I'll happy chat offline, I just want this feature set to exist.  Thanks so much for the otherwise absolutely fantastic product!
Why doesn't skype actually send messages when it says it has?   It sucks in a whole load of other ways too, but they can be worked around or otherwise dealt with.   A messaging application which cannot reliably send a message, though, is just 50MB of bugs and attack surface.
Huh? If they accidentally close the program, you can open the program again and call them again.
can my company see all my skype communication info? like chat logs and who i've called?
Then all he had to say was "Sorry, we don't know the answer, we're a different team". You know they are a different team. I know they are a different team. But do you think the average consumer knows that? Probably not. So let's remain civil and help guide them. Instead of childishly calling people "dipshits". Keep your cool.
I think you mean Skype to Skype, not end to end.    What's stopping you guys from continuing your relationship with the NSA and doing dirty deeds before and after the encryption process at these end points?  How can we, the consumers of Skype for Business, know that you don't have a backdoor that puts goatse to shame?
Free as in "it doesn't cost *money*".  I still have to give up several liberties to use it when true, free (as in actually-fucking-free) alternatives exist.  So, I don't think "It's free" excuses the sheer lack of privacy in regular Skype.
How difficult will it be to transition our business from lync2013 to Skype for business hosted with Office 365? We know O365 is on our future, but we are going to let Exchange and SharePoint lead the way.
Is Microsoft ever going to fix any of the more glaring issues with normal skype or are they going to leave that steaming pile of crap alone? These problems include, but are not limited to:  1. Force minimizing anything you are doing or watching when you recieve a call  2. Having its notice click boxes pop up over whatever you are doing w/o the box itself (go to click on a button or link in the corner... nope you have just been tabbed to skype because someone logged on or sent you a message)  3. There is a Microsoft Windows update and you need to restart. Every single time the last program to shut down, the one that fights this the hardest, is Microsoft Skype (seriously wtf?)  4. Why can't I adjust the audio level / mute individuals in the call?   And the list goes on. 
Totally dodged it.  It's an issue that exists in both consumer Skype and Skype for Business.  Both consumer Skype and the SfB client that's being pushed are binary blobs whose actions are very, very difficult to trace.  This isn't a question of infrastructure - I'm convinced the infrastructure is sound.  It's these Skype for Business clients that I don't trust - just like I don't trust the Skype for Consumers client.  And that's what the question was about - how secure and how trustworthy the endpoints can be when IT can't exactly analyze the defensive binary blob.  This applies to both Skype and Skype for Business, and claiming it doesn't is just a lie.  Instead, captain Skype here ignores the concerns about endpoint security and reaffirms that the infrastructure is good.  So yeah, the *infrastructure* of Lync/SfB is very well documented.  But the *clients* - the endpoints - that Microsoft are pushing now are *not*, and they've just refused to talk about it.
[deleted]
I am staff in an enterprise sized business. I cut off communication by leaving my desk.   Effective, really. 
Hello! Thanks for taking the time for this AMA! I have two questions:   First in Skype, Why is it that if the chat window is not in focus, it won't continue to scroll? Most of us have dual monitor setups and can be cumbersome to stop a presentation just to click back to Skype and scroll down.  (Looks like a job for the lonely Scroll-Lock key?)    Second question in Lync, our conference rooms are often hooked into an in house audio system. Lync will attempt to adjust the audio levels automatically to prevent feedback/noise or enhance voice levels (this feature does not play nice with external AV systems).   Currently, there is no way to disable this feature (Even a reg-key would be wonderful), and as such we have to rely on Polycom or Cisco Telepresence which gives us more control over audio mixing.  Thanks!
So much this. Fuck it, make the retarded X to minimise default, but at least allow us to change the setting.
[deleted]
&gt; In my experience, the product is solid for those organizations who are looking for true UC (hence the great adoption and growth) but sometimes implementations are screwed up by teams that lack experience. What happened in your case?  Lync doesn't handle remote workers or small remote offices as well as other SIP based solutions. Without Media Bypass, even the slightest hint of jitter can make an otherwise perfectly acceptable and stable Internet connection pretty much unusable.  We would normally solve this by clamping the bitrate on the codec, but you cannot do this with Lync. It will happily try and throttle up and down from full bitrate audio (100Kbps/sec) no matter the conditions of the line, which results the user sounding like they are attempting a bad Max Headroom impersonation.  Lync is a great product, but it's just not suited to small businesses with many remote workers and no MPLS WAN to carry traffic.  
why all the malware ads?
Why are you giving my dick pics to the NSA?
[deleted]
I'm a bit late, but I know the answer. I work with some ex-Skype guys.  They need it to keep p2p running properly.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Why are the emoticons for Lync so terrible compared to the older microsoft communicator ones?
Dude, you do know that the only reason skype is getting anywhere is supposed AD integration right?  Anyone needing real security has implemented skype for event planners and let their IT use something that works like OTR.
Why don't you allow the Microsoft Software Support Teams to utilize your Skype Application during support calls?  It is annoying that the support teams use another app to do what the Skype app already does.
At the enterprise level they have "group policies" where the system administrator can disable such things for all computers on the network. There's no excuse for things like this at home. 
OSX software doesn't run on Linux :-)  Skype for Linux exists and was okay for many years.  Once Microsoft bought Skype it seemed to become neglected.
Skype for business. How do you feel about Lync. Isn't it the Microsoft equilivent of Skype for business........?
&gt;skype used to be p2p  This was the biggest advantage over things like Google Talk. I could get 1080p with people that Google would only give SD video. I'm very disappointed p2p is no longer a capability. 
Will you be improving support for Mac?
When you present it automatically puts you in Do Not Disturb. I don't see a prob.
These are the developers of Skype *for Business*, which was Lync. Skype "for consumers" is a separate product (and was never good)
You mean, why does it stay in the taskbar? Super annoying. There's a check box in options somewhere.
Will we ever get an update to the Lync Attendant? It's basically been ignored for the past 3 years, it's still on the 2010 release, will there be a S4B Attendant?
[deleted]
At my office, we use Lync. One of the problems that I have is that I cannot copy/paste simple images in chat. This causes quite an issue for my design team and I. It sounds like Lynch is going away in favor of Skype for Business. I'd be very interested to know some of the collaboration features we can expect in this move?
Look we have a native Android client.  Clearly a completely different market share question, of course.  But we absolutely have customers in a variety of fields (Pharma, Manuf, etc.) that run *nix workstations.  It's not an easy problem for a "business" product either because we have to be specific about support and that's hard in this space.....the fragmentation goes beyond distributions.   I don't think a web client is a completely terrible idea - we're also getting a bunch of requests on the WebRTC front and well support is pretty OK there in the browser side.  I don't think it's a slam dunk we get it for free, but it's possible.  &lt;/speculation&gt;  Thanks  Jamie
grim
[deleted]
So what your saying is, if you do it wrong, it wont work?  Sounds about right. :P
I think you're referring to Skype Consumer.    We look after Skype for Business (formerly known as Lync) that operates against either on-premises servers or in Office 365.  They're completely different products, although we've recently adopted the Skype name because our client now has the look and feel of the Skype consumer client, minus things like Ads obviously.
A GREAT QUESTION from an account made the same day as the AMA... Yeah...
ANOTHER GREAT QUESTION from an account created the same day as the AMA...
Thanks for sharing.  I'm sorry your experience with the product wasn't great.  One minor thing I just want to note in your comment - you mention that "you cannot do this with Lync", meaning throttle bandwidth.    In fact, you absolutely can, on a per media basis, in addition to prioritizing the packets on the wire (although admittedly that doesn't help if your remote office is on a DSL or similar).  There are a bunch of ways to do this, from client policies to CAC throttling (we'll negotiate a codec bitrate under the per-session limit of the CAC policy...)  If you want to know more, check out any of the "Enterprise Networking" sessions we've done on Lync, starting with the ones we did at Lync Conference [here](http://aka.ms/lyncconf14)  Thanks Jamie
Appreciate the feedback.  Thank you. Jamie
Skype for Business clients run on Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Windows Phone, etc.  On the server side we run on Windows Server, either virtualized or not.    Can't comment on Skype consumer for Linux, but had some Skype for Business &amp; Linux commentary further up the page.  Jamie
Cool, thanks for replying.  They'll still operate just fine in Skype for Business, no worries.  
If we block all outgoing traffic, what ip addresses can we whitelist so that we can use skype file transfer?
Do you think you guys could introduce something more like the mumble program? because i have friends who use mumble, and i have friends who use Skype. I think if skype introduced a high quality audio - only style communication program, that i could get my friends who use Mumble to switch to skype!
[deleted]
[deleted]
Thanks for the feedback.    I have started doing LWA demos in our Executive Briefing Center where if someone has a random laptop, I'll forward a meeting request to them and get them to download &amp; install the plug-in and join the meeting.  It hasn't burned me yet (knock on wood).  So my experience is clearly skewed.    If you get a chance, would love to know if the experience is seemingly random, if it's seems related to user creds, already having Lync installed but not configured, etc.
Oops, what I meant was working ON. Your developper OS, that you are using.
Thanks.  I wish we had some data on what's tripping up the plug-in process in these cases.  It's frustrating.  I've walked analysts (one example of generally non-technical folks) through the plug-in thing just swimmingly.  On the plug-in - yeah, we're trying to be smart here and pick up an event where the meeting dial-in gets goofy.  If you have your meetings configured so they have the same ID each time the dial-in number and conf bridge ID won't change, you can just use that.  That being said.....of course we want everyone to use dial-in as a last resort.  Any other join condition - mobile, LWA, federated, click-to-join through LPE, etc., is functionally better than PSTN, provided it actually works of course.  Thanks Jamie
Not until the rest of office catches up with us.  Right now you have to go to Lync 2013 then install the update to get to Skype for Business.
We use Bing search capabilities when you search for a Skype user.  You can look for "Jamie in Washington", etc.
Why even have an X when all it does is minimize? Also please answer OP's question.
Interesting. Thank you Jamie.
Uh....clearly I think Skype for Business is significantly better than Cisco Jabber, particularly with voice features, both from a usability &amp; back-end infrastructure perspective.  Doubtful you would expect me to say otherwise....there are fine third parties out there who can be objective, including analysts like Gartner.
I have a fresh install (as of this morning) and don't see that....
Not sure if anyone responds to this, but what are your plans for enterprise voice?   Working on getting everything up to the cloud and our Cisco reps were a little uncomfortable with the idea of us ditching all the in house systems and moving toward hosted voice using Lync/Skype. Will I be able to port DID's, buy DID's for business purposes. Any plans to add capable call routing, queues, things like that?
Windows update. 
Not really a question, I just look forward to hearing lots from you guys next week at UC Expo in London =D
This is not OK.  Something is wrong with your deployment.  Call a good partner.  Please.  Ping me directly if you want references - jastark (at) microsoft
Thanks Caleb!
[deleted]
First, I can't agree with your premise - I don't work in Skype consumer, etc.  Second, there are literally dozens of companies, large and small, in the US and around the world, that use Lync Server today for their communications.  All of the traffic - signaling and media - is encrypted by default using the same AD infrastructure and PKI that's operating your network auth.  
jastark (at) microsoft
Microsoft owns Skype now. 
I'm not talking about the X button.  I'm talking about going to File -&gt; "Close".
Nothing for Skype for Business right now because it's a cumulative update on top of the existing Lync 2013 client.  I don't know about the next release of Office though where we could make a substantial change like this to the packaging.    Thanks for the feedback.  Sharing this now. Jamie
Hmm, kind of what I figured. Thanks, I'll talk with my boss and shoot you a message after I get his approval.
It's almost as if it was all intentional...  Remember when eBay bought Skype? I remember thinking how damn weird it was that an internet auction site would try to get into instant messaging, way back when. It's even weirder than when Facebook bought Oculus. What possible connection is there between eBay and IM?  Well, I found a presentation a while ago (don't have a link, sorry)--I assume was based on the Snowden leaks--which described the undermining of Skype's encryption. Allegedly, eBay buying Skype was facilitated by the NSA, who paid for the transaction. But eBay screwed up and left control of the product in the hands of the original developers. This led to the NSA getting Microsoft to buy it, whereupon they immediately set about centralizing the network, thereby making it infinitely more practical to intercept communications on that network.  EDIT: [Here's a Guardian link that talks about it.](http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2013/oct/11/skype-ten-microsoft-nsa)
How does it feel to finally have a competent CEO after 14 years of having the worst CEO of a Fortune 500 company, EVER?
I've never understood this problem. Both applications are meant for making or receiving calls. Being able to quit the application defeats that purpose: if you quit, nobody can reach you, and if another user quits, you can't reach them. What's the point of having Skype or Lync if nobody can contact each other?  It's like saying, "When I hang up my phone, why don't you disconnect it?"  You might say, "But sometimes I don't want to be reachable!" Fair enough; that's what the Do Not Disturb status is for (same as on your phone).
Unless they don't realize it's closed and people are trying to get ahold of them
Think I am missing something. I have a Lync online 2 account. That is supposed to be able to use a desktop client. Using the Skype for business client, I cannot sign in using the onmicrosoft.com username? I get could not find a Skype for Business Server. Yet it works fine for web meetings. I am not sure this is new, think I could not get it to work in the old client either. Seems to be nowehere to specify the cloud servers.
Lync is a closer cousin to MSN messenger  than Skype and i hope SforB stays that way.
&gt; I think you're referring to Skype Consumer.  "No no no, we're talking about the non-shitty version, it just happens to have the same name..."  Isn't this why they re-branded IE?
I use windows phone 7.8.  Skype is no longer available for windows phone 7.8.  Does that not strike you as extremely ridiculous? 
Some people actually like this design. 
&gt; Um....look at the architecture of Skype for Business  I'd love to! Can you link to the source code so I can have a look?
This is Jamie.  Yeah, absolutely - that's the intent.  Definitely going to allow users to purchase / port numbers if you are getting the phone service from us.  You can also keep your existing phone service and connect to it using an on-premises deployment of servers (essentially a pool &amp; mediation to handle interop &amp; routing).  There's an article on the topic up on Nojitter.com  With regard to additional features &amp; how they get staged out, don't have details yet to disclose but we plan on sharing more at the [Ignite](http://ignite.microsoft.com) show next month in Chicago.
[deleted]
Sweet, thanks for the response. Enjoying the new features and improvements with every release. 
Point taken. If I wanted to put in the work to convert my conversational gifs, it would work. I wouldn't embed an animated gif in a web site, but for quick and easy animations they work well. I agree it is an antiquated format, but it works well for what it is.
I think a large portion of this is due to the misunderstanding of the mechanics &amp; purpose of this fallout.  Microsoft discloses security breaches in their software to high priority clients (IE the USA Government) as a means to protect their customers.  If you were using a microsoft product to coordinate a missile launch, and Microsoft said there is a bug/security exploit in the product as discovered internally or as a customer report, you'd sure as fuck want to know about it and all the details pertaining to it. At the same time, you don't want everyone in the world to know about it either!  So you see how prioritizing bug/security-exploit reporting can easily be turned into "leaving back doors for the NSA."  I'm not sating that that function wasn't exploited (it probably was.) But that was implemented for a very logical purpose and based on the idea of trust between the product developer and its clients.
I know, the "why" was rhetorical. If MS wants to discontinue Skype for GNU/Linux, why doesn't it do so outright and save me and countless other GNU/Linux users the trouble?
Saw Shoretel and some others mentioned throughout this thread. I've also heard of [Amadeo Cloud](http://www.amadeocloud.com).
It's not open source but mega are doing encrypted video chat now
Especially if they changed it now. People would click the X and then be offline, not realizing they closed it. 
You really need to provide that link for any of this to be corroborated.
Why hasn't there been an open source competitor yet? I'm really surprised nobody has jumped on it. 
WHy is Microsoft not doing anything about account security? Hackers are running rampant and overtaking accounts and there is no solution to prevent it or even get accounts back. 
Why can't you just please work on true SIP/h.323 interop instead of forking everything until nothing works?  Obviously Skype was forked before you acquired it but Lync/OCS wasn't any better in terms of standards.   Your killer app is being able to connect a traditional h.323 room with a consumer Skype account on the Internet with firewall traversal. If that existed right now, I would be recommending massive Microsoft software purchases instead of massive #otherbrand hardware lifecycle refreshes. 
[deleted]
This is an AMA by the Skype For Business team.  Why would you expect them to talk about things that are not Skype for Business?
This is great, will skype4B be able to share content with skype consumer users??
Maybe my users aren't as dense as others - years and years and years oh and might I add and years of that one button being the close button has made even my grandma know what that button is supposed to do. I've had some users do some pretty dumb things, but those same users you've trained all this time to do one thing, are now confused by the behavior of an application that does not follow the same standard of every single other application.    Plus not every enterprise environment uses lync. Let me enable the tool and those settings via group policy, instead of forcing me to disable it. I'd rather opt in after testing, verifying, etc. Unless I have an overzealous patch team whose deploying it unnecessarily, all I know is they have been deploying patches and I have countless users calling me telling this item they don't use pops up every time they start their computer and they can't close it. 
Alright so then we're going to start disabling the close button on all apps then - what, since some retard might close it by accident - logically, given your logic, and what you've said, I might close my email by accident. My browser. Hell, I might even close down my explorer window. Let's change the entire behaviour of a button that I've used since the early 90s cuz you might close it by accident. 
Will you have call pickup enabled for the call centre software?
You guys got any job openings; I need a job?
&gt; When you present it automatically puts you in Do Not Disturb. I don't see a prob.  I do.  I don't want Skype/Lync monitoring my running processes to know what I'm presenting with another program.  That's way overreaching.
But did your employer give them a backdoor?
He really doesn't.  Skype used to be P2P, now it's centrally managed.  Even if what he says about the reasoning isn't accurate, the end result is the same.  It's central now, and only one location need to be "compromised" to intercept communications.
&gt;taking a break **every couple weeks** for beers  ah man, depressing
Why are you screwing over the Linux community with an outdated product?
What does "present" mean in this case? A PowerPoint? What if I'm doing something through a browser but still "presenting"? It's impossible for lync/Skype to accurately know when I'm presenting something.
That... Has nothing to do with security
You underestimate the impact a bad UI choice can make. Design the UI around the user's needs, not force the user to fight with the UI to accomplish simple tasks.
That this ridiculousness is +16 makes me embarrassed for reddit.
@s4bteam is it possible to come up with products for a different market such as gaming, like Razer Comms?
This is complete BS from the skype team... Cut and paste was broken in 2013 and anyone telling you different is lying.  Microsoft has worked hard to fix cut and paste and you can see it in SfB, however it still is not great and amazing how microsoft can botch this!  
How easy is it for the NSA to intercept the communication and how much do they pay you for it?
Because Microsoft doesn't give a fuck. That's why.
Yes they can. You won't get an answer though.
Why would users be able to apply large patches without testing and approval if you're so concerned about this kind of result?  Honestly, you have nobody to blame but yourself. If your organization is big and unwieldy enough that this causes a significant issue, then you have no excuse for not having patch testing in place and blocking users from installing their own updates.
Why are you downvoting him? Downvotes are for irrelevancy. I hate the skype function too, but don't downvote on opinion.
It's when your display is duplicated.  Docking a laptop before it's been configured to extend your display onto a secondary monitor will put Lync into DnD mode.
I've been testing Skype for Business 2015 and 2016 for my organization and I've been quite impressed. I like GTM but the fact that Lync is free through our Office 365 agreement is a massive selling point for us. I have a couple questions though.  1. The Windows and iOS clients are really quite good. However the Mac client is horrendous. As there is nothing bundled with the Office 2016 for Mac preview, this is concerning. I simply can't switch without decent Mac support, it's a complete dealbreaker and while Lync 2011 does function, it is extremely borderline. Is there any info you can provide about future platform support for Skype for Business?  2. When will we get a standalone Skype for Business installer? Microsoft licensing is more generous than ever, but in some ways that causes more annoyance because while so many things are free, the path to them is convoluted and frustrating. Let's say I'm using Office 2010 and want to get Skype for Business 2015. Why must I first install Lync 2013, then install 1.5GB of Office 2013 general patches that barely apply, and then run Windows Update again and install a 227mb patch to Lync 2013 that barely mentions Skype for Business? Deployment is a nightmare like this.  3. Why is there no simple dial in support for Lync? I'm talking about a clean, GoToMeeting-esque solution that allows for a no-fuss dial in number for people who want to conference in from a phone. I don't want to have to mess around with integrating my phone system or finding a 3rd party provider. I just want what GoToMeeting offers, a dial in number I can give to people too old, lazy or incompetent to use their computer to join an online meeting.  4. Why do I have to manually configure internal and outgoing servers for every client, when it's just a generic "sipdir.online.lync.com:443" address? I don't get why the client can't figure this out considering it's a static address that you provide in troubleshooting steps. What do I have to do in Office 365 to fix this and get it to connect normally?
[deleted]
There are powershell scripts you can run against your domain or tenant to keep you on the old UI for up to a year. It is in one of the office mechanics blogs they offer. 
That's... Even worse somehow? My boss is a single monitor guy, he has a docking station that is configured to just display his laptop on a bigger screen. So lync would never work for him
Sigh...the Lync client for Mac, including the updates, is borderline unusable (crashes, slow performance).  I still cannot believe that in a world where you are aiming toward subscription/cloud based adoption of your products (Office 365 etc), you continue to release features and updates in widely overlapping timelines. It makes change management within a mixed platform organization a nightmare!  It is great that you finished the Windows version first, but you should hold it back until all versions are ready, and mass release at once. Supporting a user base with asynchronous updates/new features is unnecessarily challenging because of your approach...
[deleted]
Of couse it's all options you can configure.   Ypu have the option to DND if you are presenting via Lync (aka S4B), and/or if you have your monitor duplicated. It's just settings guys, change them to suit your needs. 
It is a toggle (it's just on by default).
It would know his screen is NOT duplicated so it would work just fine.
There are two separate options, one for if you are a meeting host, and one for if your screen is duplicated. 
Why do you think it was a better idea to push the update as a "critical update" in office 2013 rather than giving admins control of when and how it was pushed out? I came to work this morning with no idea how it got out as I didn't have auto-approve in WSUS set for anything from lync... it's actually come down as an update for office13. Having a few hundred people call the helpdesk asking why they have skype for business and no lync was not fun this morning and I can't help but feel like this was very forced by microsoft.
It's a toggleable setting.  The first time it detects it it asks if you want that to always be the case.  If you change your mind it's in the settings menu.
Got to Settings -&gt; Status and uncheck the two boxes which automatically turn on DnD, then turn it on manually when you want it.
How does that relate to Skype/Lync monitoring OTHER programs on my computer?  Just because it doesn't react doesn't mean it's not looking.
Only because it was a question about a different piece of software. I'd expect him to dodge questions about Origin or Steam too.
&gt; Then all he had to say was "Sorry, we don't know the answer, we're a different team".  That basically *is* what he said.
Almost certain it does have an option to make it close on "close".
If that's true then it means that:  1) people here who are complaining about it are idiots (entirely possible)  and   2) none of the skype people who had two or more chances to respond to this complaint said nothing at all about it.  
Pretty much the least downvotable comment here, seemingly downvoted. 
In addition to providing all Enterprise grade telephony features, Skype for Business Integrates with your identity management system, so you can administer policies, dialplans, permissions and functionality centrally. It gives you the ability to have compliance on your system, for archiving, recording and detailed billing. Rich meeting capabilities from any device, and any location, including browsers. I could go on and on. There are plenty of benefits for Businesses to switch to Skype for Business.  Yes, it has IVR and call transferring capabilities too!  - Taimoor
Yep this is now available!  - Taimoor
See above.
Skype for Business has a recording feature where you can record conferences. It aggregates all streams, audio/video, I'm, desktop share into a single video file for you to store and share as needed. Skype for Business is sold under your company's licensing agreement with Microsoft, so depending on what kind of licensing you have with Microsoft the cost will vary. Check with your local Microsoft account rep.  - Taimoor
This is an interesting thought. What kind of integration would you like to see. How can we better incorporate OneDrive for Business into Skype for Business?
We introduced VDI support in Lync 2013 and are continuing that support in Skype for Business.  - Taimoor
I think you will see a lot of devices being catered to the conference rooms, starting with the Surface Hub, which I think is a fantastic example, of technology coming together for Collaboration. We are always looking to innovate and provide better experiences.  - Taimoor
[deleted]
We have provided IT the control to keep the UI at Lync 2013 until you are ready to make the UI switch over to Skype for Business. Managing the transition is fundamental and we hope we are providing enough control to be able to do that.  - Taimoor
This has been answered above by Jamie. We will be making further announcements on this at Ignite in a few weeks.  - Taimoor
You can be logged into Skype and Skype for Business at the same time. 
Skype for Business supports anonymous and guest users to be participants in your meeting, over audio and video and collaborate using desktop sharing, whiteboarding and all the goodness of what the meeting has to offer. All they need is a browser and an internet connection.  Skype for Business also has a video interoperability server which will allow some SIP devices to dial into these meetings as well.  - Taimoor
See above. We will be announcing more details at Ignite in a couple of weeks.  - Taimoor
O365 and therefore Skype for Business online is indeed HIPAA compliant.   - Taimoor
Yes. Different release cycles, but yet.  - Taimoor
No change to licensing. Hosted Enterprise Voice from O365 starts rolling out in the US later this year.  - Taimoor
Skype for Business can definitely connect with Skype consumer users. Currently, we haven't announced the scalability numbers for Skype for Business officially, but for planning purposes Lync 2013 supports 250 users in a conference, out of the box and a 1000 users with some planning.  - Taimoor
It should not be difficult. With anything it will take some planning and migration tasks.  - Taimoor
Kinda surprised how much shit they're getting over this. Is there any IM client that doesn't act this way?  Some applications such as torrents and the like are designed to be always running.
Skype for Business is the next iteration of Lync.  - Taimoor
We will be refreshing all of our clients, including for MAC.  - Taimoor
Copy Paste of Images is available from Lync 2013 onwards.  - Taimoor
The Mobile clients wont be released as soon as the server is released but will follow shortly after. The existing mobile clients work great with S4B server though.  - Taimoor
Where would one voice concerns about Skype Consumer? The commenter you replied to has some very valid points.
Awesome! Thanks for the response. Any word on bringing inking functionality back to the desktop client? 
[deleted]
That was your chance to place a link. ;)
this guy has middle management written all over him...
Except not really, *he didn't comment at all* in regards to consumer Skype. Not commenting is not the same as giving an implied answer.
He could have just said "We're different teams, sorry, but I don't know that answer." Instead of giving an answer in relation to Skype for Business, which is a different product. It's a little misleading. When I first read his comment I thought it was implied that Skype (consumer version) might be the same, but then I realize that all he did was *not comment* on regular Skype at all. At least just say "I don't know".
[deleted]
Yeah every client at that business, but not every client. And the expected behaviour of that button isn't always to close the program - sometimes you can't even push it, and Macs pretty much never close things when you use that button.
I did see those scripts I just wasn't sure if it would still show the Skype UI first anyway, if you follow.  I'll probably give it a test later today anyway, I was just hoping to get a straight answer. Cheers :) 
Why doesn't the skype android client have a way to clear chat history? Seriously?
[deleted]
But what about the forced change in icons on start menu and task bar, and also the renaming within the Outlook plug-in? Does this $false flag also revert those items? I don't think it does as Outlook doesn't check your Lync login status to generate the icon, nor does the Lync application before you login. 
I presume it's because when you "close" steam, it closes to a tiny out of the way icon in your notification area, rather than remaining a big icon in your taskbar. It's much less visible and intrusive, as it's not constantly reminding you *"hello here I am look at me never going away"*.
That's some I changed in the settings, computers are very customizable.
I'm a little late, but:  - Why change Lync to Skype? I mean the interface. It was an already easy interface, even more since ICQ/MSN Messenger and others, such as facebook/google messenger. 
Do you guys keep records?
[deleted]
I'm actually running a class on this, so I'm showing it from both the meeting organizer and an outside user's point of view. so far, the process as an outsider is:  * click join Skype meeting from the email invitation * it opened lync on the computer and then closed it because there's no account associated * it sent me to the screen where you type your name and agree to download the plugin * it downloaded the plugin * Windows ran a security scan on it * got a prompt that '*.infra.lync.com wants to load the plug in....' and clicked allow * went to 'joining the meeting' * warning that windows firewall has blocked some features of this app and clicked 'allow access' * then the meeting finally loads, but it shows yellow bars about the speaker being muted and 'can't hear? turn up the volume' * finally connected to the meeting  Compare that to our WebEx Meeting account:  * click the link in the email * immediately downloads a small program and starts the install * asks for their name * they're connected to the meeting  I'd say it's not a terribly hard process, but people seem to get tripped up a lot, for some reason. I think it's because there's a lot of prompts and security problems when connecting. 
Yeah for sure. Most of the time the people using the web app are trying to join without user credentials as a guest. Usually its the installing and running the plugin that has problems.   I'd say most of the scenarios involve using Chrome or Firefox. I've found that if LWA is installed and enabled it's about 50/50 on if the call will open up, so I often have to find myself clients paste the link in IE to resolve. A workaround exists but it's just a pain.  I've had only a few problems running it on my Mac and I've been part of conference calls with other Mac users where they can't get the Web App to run in any browser.  It's gotten to the point with one of my clients that if they know they are going to have a meeting with external users they have their help desk create accounts for them and install Lync Basic.   Even my company has found it not as easy as GoToMeeting or join.me which sucks cause we love Lync/Skype4Biz
I've been using the Skype for Business Beta and it is literally an update for Lync 2013, it technically is basically the same application just rebranded.  Any existing Lync traffic will most likely be treated the same way.
[deleted]
Ah yes, of course... it updated my computer with software I'll never use... For my protection.
You can change it in settings, like every other program...
&gt; In fact, you absolutely can, on a per media basis, in addition to prioritizing the packets on the wire (although admittedly that doesn't help if your remote office is on a DSL or similar). There are a bunch of ways to do this, from client policies to CAC throttling (we'll negotiate a codec bitrate under the per-session limit of the CAC policy...)  The point is, you cannot for a user who is using a standard Internet connection.  I would like to add, we really tried to find a solution for this as we love Lync. (We have it fully integrated with our Exchange Server for UM - it's great.) We even brought in Landis Computers and they came to the same conclusion as us. Lync is just not suited for full time remote workers who need to work from home or otherwise run Lync over a regular Internet connection.
There is already a beta web client you might be able to use.  Not tested it from a Chromebook but it might be worth trying.  https://login.skype.com/login?client_id=578134&amp;redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fweb.skype.com
What about tox?  Edit:   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tox_%28software%29  https://tox.im 
[deleted]
It appears to me that many here are asking about the Skype standard edition.  I've worked for two companies now that have run Lync and I've kind of loved it at one and hated it at another.    One company was based out of Europe, one was based out of US.  The US based company has disabled the "Conversation History" feature; it was explained to us that the 'lawyers' did not want this to be discoverable information.  This seems ridiculous to me and it has made Lync nearly useless to all of us; what's happened is that our email is still used as an "IM" client; I get 100's of 1 line emails that are 30 seconds apart.  It's a pain for everyone and it also means that it's all still discoverable.  My question - can you remove this feature?  At the very least, if you're going to leave it in, can you publish a FAQ that addresses the legal concerns and maybe changes some minds?
Great thanks! Haven't got this going for now, but knowing it works, I can ask my way through!
Ok, I don't really know much about it, just thought it might be worth mentioning. :)
Also, we would like the sheep emoticon back. However, I do enjoy the squirrel. 
True enough.  I guess if your not in that part of the business world, you don't know that 'Skype for Business' is a branding name only, and has nothing to do with 'Skype consumer'. 
0 dollars
Sorry, Skype for Web (Beta) is invitation only at this time. :(
That's odd as I just created a new Skype account a couple of days ago and was able to login with that fine. 
https://github.com/altso/gfycat
There are PLENTY of apps that minimize or close to the notification area. I appreciate Lync and Skype trying to make sure I know they are still running, but at least give me the option to turn off the idiot mode.
LIES!
Ah the Communicator/Lync flicker is back! :( I almost cried. I battled with this issue for over a year, but most people said they never experienced it. Now it's back! MY UI is falling back to Lync 2013 so I get new sounds (and have to re-wire my brain to respond to these new sounds), new emoticons (neither here nor there, but no benefit) and a regression that is guaranteed to annoy me for months on end. Did we get any confirmed fixes in this mess? :(
People will keep telling you it's the deployment but I have been battling the same issues with Lync and Communicator for years on end and my company's IT department have no idea how to fix them. Lync blames "the internet" for all its problems. It's gotten to the point where it's beyond a joke and every fellow employee I talk to just wants Lync gone.
This isn't the right forum for your business. Know your demographic, know your market.  That's 101 level shit son.
What you want is a "WebRTC" based service - they're peer2peer that use a website to establish the connection. Then you use the browser as the client for video chat. https://appear.in is one example that seems quite good (use it to search similar or do a search for 'webrtc video chat').
Oh weird, like when I close my email? Or when I walk away from my desk and can't answer the phone?
Reading through most these comments it seems like it was a bad idea to rename it Skype for Business. Skype already has a strong negative connotation amongst a large number of people, so having a new and (supposedly) completely different product sharing its name seems to confuse things greatly.
If someone emails you they're usually not expecting an immediate response, so you'll see it when you come back, and if you're away from your desk you'll see missed messages and calls when you come back. However if you turn off Lync, you aren't going to know if someone's trying to call you and you may not remember or notice to open the program again.
WebEx is a nice tool that I've used in a business environment.  FAR better than Lync ever was.
I only would see the emails that were sent if I re-open my mail client though. 
[deleted]
But "taskkill /f" doesn't kill it.  You have to reboot.  That is my complaint and what makes it virus-like.
[deleted]
I know you knew that the second you people made this AMA that you were going to get way more flack than appeal. So all I'm saying is thank you for the coop and decency for being honest and helpful the way you could... despite the flaws outlined.   My question, is when you witness the competition and underseers of the up-and-coming, more "trustworthy" businesses noticing the problems with their competitors, what sort of changes have you considered? 
It doesn't, it just minimizes it to the system tray instead of the taskbar. It's still running, except more out of the way.
Please pay attention to paragraph 4 - the drawing of new windows and text messages are really slow. We can't move people from Lync 2010 because 2013 was much slower, and S4B is more slower! Lync 2010 was really, really fast - and s4B is not.  BTW, it stills not remembering chat window size and positions for different chats, as Lync 2010 does.
There is a lot of questions from people who thinking that "Skype" and "Skype for business" is the same thing. The same misunderstanding will be in enterprises too. Does anybody thought about it?
We have run into this alot and have just made service accounts for specific laptops / conference rooms that allow the equipment to login with it's own name for meetings. Kindof a pain but works well. logging in more than once would be nice.
Why is there no easy way to revert back to Lync from Skype for Business for accidental "upgrades"? Half our devices were updated before we caught it and disabled it from our WSUS server. Our staff includes people who get frustrated when an icon moves a bit unless we warn them. We don't have a separate Skype Server.  Or is there one that I just can't find?
During a presentation when someone gives me control of their desktop why can I not paste text into their applications? I need to paste passwords since they are so complex.
