Mr. Walton, first off thank you for doing this AMA. During an Oregon-USC broadcast earlier this year you called Michael Jordan 'average' &amp; later went on to say that he is not a top 3 player of all time. I was curious who in your opinion are the top 3 players of all time? 
What was the biggest moment of your career?
Thank you so much for doing this AMA. Is it possible to describe in words what it feels like to win an NBA Championship?
What do you think is the state of current NBA and NCAA color commentary on tv? The other day my 17 year old daughter and I were watching the NCAA tournament and she asked, Do they have the same announcers for every game? Ha! They all sound the same. They all speak with the same authoritative male voice. You and a very few others, have been willing to speak more freely, to make mistakes even! This has drawn you criticism, but your commentary is so much more refreshing and challenging than what passes for color commentary these days.  Tl;dr: What do you think is the state of current NBA and NCAA color commentary on tv? 
What is your feeling on Frank Caliendo's impression of you; and follow up Detlef Shremp the best player ever? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jArUB6mB6hs&amp;feature=youtu.be
Just watching your broadcasts for the NCAA tournament I have to ask. Are you eating pot brownies before every game?
Based on performance over a single season, I would argue that you were the best to ever play in the NBA (and college, as well). How do you see comparing players like Michael Jordan and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar or Wilt Chamberlain? I cant argue the Jordan isnt the best overall player ever; and his performance can be reasonably compared with someone like Kobe Bryant, who plays more or less the same position. But how can Jordan be compared to Abdul-Jabbar and Chamberlain? Especially when people making the evaluation either never saw, or only vaguely remember, them at their best.  Ti;dr: Not really asking who you think the best ever player is/was; but, rather, how can someone assess/compare players as different as Jordan and Abdul-Jabbar?  
[deleted]
What is your favorite *Grateful Dead* album?
Hi, Mr. Walton!    What is your opinion on paying college athletes?    Also, which accomplishment are you most proud of: being part of the UCLA/John Wooden national championship legacy, being national college player of the year and the number one NBA Draft pick, winning an NBA championship with the Portland Trail Blazers, or having a son who also became an NBA player?    Thank you for doing this AMA!
How Luke doing? What's he up to?
It's Dave right?
Hey Bill!  1) do you think the NCAA should switch to a 30 second shot clock to improve the pace of games?  2) do you think Pac12 refs call fouls constantly because they want to hang out with you for longer?
What is the story behind being milked?
Will Dave Pasch be dropping by?
Have you ever been to a volcano when its erupting?
Hey Bill,  go blazers! I will forever be a fan!  Do you still smoke weed? And due to its recent change of legal status in Oregon,  what major changes in revenue and culture do you foresee for portland within the next few years?  
Who were your favorite players to play with/against?
Big fan of your commentary.   What is your actual height with shoes? Ive read you didnt want to be categorized as a seven-footer, but it is reported you are 71 or 72.  Also, mentally, how did you handle going from playing nearly every game in college (and being the Naismith Award Winner three years in a row) to being on the disabled list for most of your NBA career?
Hi Bill. Thanks for doing this. Love hearing you call games for the Conference of Champions. Who was your favorite player to watch in the Pac-12 this season and why? 
For the following reasons you are one of my favorite people.  1) Grateful Dead music has been in my blood since 1968.  It runs through you too. I went to my first show at the age of 14.  2) Basketball is in my blood also.  Ive been playing since I was 8 years old.  Im 56 and I still play twice a week even though Ive slowed down quite a bit.  You are part of the greatest sport on earth.  3)  My daughter is a Bruin Alumni and as a Bruin parent I feel immense gratitude to the institution that you represent so well.  For all these reasons, even as a Laker fan, I forgive you for ever having been a Celtic.  Just kidding, any fan of the game has to appreciate their incredible history and what you had accomplished there. May I ask if you have any insight regarding  either of these things which are not common knowledge that you would be willing to share with us?  In addition, have you encountered Reddit before and if so have you checked out r/gratefuldead?  We love you over there. 
[deleted]
Bill, huge fan!  I have always wanted to ask you this question.  If you died tomorrow and went to some sort of heaven/afterlife what would you do first, go see Jerry, Pig pen, Jimi, Janis etc play music?    Or watch/play BBall with dean smith/john wooden coaching some of the great deceased NBA players over the years (Jerome Kersey, Anthony Mason, Earl Loyd, Kevin Duckworth, etc..)?
I went to about 40 of your UCLA home games but attended 100 grateful dead shows, which one should I be prouder of?
What is Cortez's favorite thing to do? Also, is there any chance we get Cortez to call a game with Dave and yourself?
What was your favorite memory at UCLA that didnt occur on a basketball court? 
Mr. Walton how did you get involved in Solar? Did you approach NRG to be a spokesperson or did they come after you with a bunch of money?
Will Cortez be available for questions? Perhaps via Vine?
Thanks for doing this Mr. Walton!  I'm curious if you think this year's Kentucky team could beat your undefeated UCLA teams from the early 70s?
I am into the concerts, so I love all of Dick's picks, all of Dave's picks, all of the live releases. It's all one song, it's all one concert, and I'll be in Chicago - and anywhere else they show up to play. I have learned now over the course of my 62 years to never rank concerts, coaches, children, championships and congratulations. Just enjoy them all and pray for more.
Who?
What are the benefits of going solar? Thinking of having it done myself.
Who, in your opinion, was the greatest basketball player to play?Aside from yourself, of course.
It's the most pleasurable experience in the world! When you're on a great team and you get hot, your teammates milk you dry - they wear you out and there's nothing like being on a great team. When you're on a bad team and you get hot, they freeze you out because they figure they have to get theirs before the game's over. Never forget - happiness ends when selfishness begins. I love being hot and there's nothing in the world like being milked. 
The greatest moment of my basketball career was when I beat Kevin McHale 1 on 1 in front of the entire Celtic family in June of 1986.
[deleted]
Which teammate of yours, while playing basketball, did the best to get the most out of everyone on the team? Who was the player you can best describe as the heart and soul of any one team you were on?
I should've played him for his number the day I got there. I'll leave numbers up to that guy Dave, right?
Hi Bill thanks for doing this! I once heard you say that you had a stutter growing up. How did you work through it to become a broadcaster? And are you going to Chicago for the Grateful Dead / Trey Anastasio shows?
Yo Bill!  What was it like to have your hair catch on fire in Little Nicky?
This answer exceeded my wildest dreams. 
Hi Bill. Awesome game 6 against the Sixers.  Have some questions from a generation ago:  1) Why didn't you play in the 1972 Summer Olympics?  2) Given how it ended for Team USA, have you ever regretted not playing?
[deleted]
Luke is now on the coaching staff of the hottest team of the NBA, the Golden State Warriors. If he's not having the time of his life in that situation, than I have failed as a father. Luke is living in the Bay Area, happily married to his sweetheart Bre and they have a brand new young baby. Luke's baby's name is Lawson. 
who?
Per your discretion, what's the greatest piece of Larry Bird trash talk you've ever witnessed?   Was Dennis Johnson actually a nice guy in person?  What one coach do you wish you could have played for but never got the chance to?
I think it was Bob Weir that said Dark Star isn't a song they play it's a song that is constantly going and they are just along for the ride.... or something to that affect.  
[deleted]
did you know that Seth Rogen played you on Kroll Show?
There is nothing like a wild dream. Chase your dream. Make your dream reality, make your dream your life, make your dream you job and somehow find a way to get milked.
Speaking of anywhere else the remaining Dead members show up to play, are the Levis Stadium shows on and will it be the same band as Chicago?  :)
Who? 
Thanks for answering! I do not think this answer can be topped. 
Speaking of anywhere else the remaining Dead members show up to play, are the Levis Stadium shows on and will it be the same band as Chicago?  :)
Hey Bill, big fan here!  Wanna meet up with my friends and I for a beer in Chicago?
Hey Bill, what's your favorite vacation destination after a long season of sports casting?    Thanks!
Is the story about how Bill Simpson who showed up to practice with a beard and long hair and John Wooden told him to shave and cut it and Bill said "I can do whatever I want" and coach Wooden said "yeah you can and we're gonna miss ya."  Is that true? 
Do the guys in the production truck really play Bill Walton Bingo during broadcasts? My friends and I certainly play at home and you make it entertaining every time
How does your back feel? Also, in a recent podcast with Bill Simmons, Robert Parrish said that Danny Ainge was super cheap. Is that true?
Why hasnt CBS asked you and Charles Barkley to announce the entirety of March Madness together? 
As a former NBA player and one who has casted games,  what is your personal opinion about the way the game is played today compared to when you and past NBA players played back in the 80s and 90s?   What are your most disliked and liked changes the NBA has made from when you were playing up until today?
You obviously have a very unique personality which comes out during your broadcasts. Is there an active effort on your part to express that? Or is it just you being you? CBS chicago plays a lot of your cuts just for fun, and they always make me laugh. How do you handle personal bias regarding cities and teams during your broadcasts, as to remain neutral?
Hi Mr. Walton!  I am a huge Blazers fan. I was wondering your take on this :) If the Blazers of your day played the Blazers of today, how do you think it would play out? What advantages did the team you played on have that Portland has touble with now. On the other hand, what do you think they do really well with that the Blazers struggled with in the mid-late 70's?  And thank you a lot for doing this AMA, I am a huge fan and you were my father's childhood idol :)
I did not call Michael Jordan average, I said Michael Jordan is average size, strength, speed, and jumping ability. The top 7 players of the history of basketball in chronological order are Bill Russell, Wilt, Oscar, Kareem, Larry Bird, Magic Johnson, and Michael Jordan. I have no problem with you disagreeing with what I say, but please make sure it's what I say, not what you think I said. When everybody thinks alike, nobody thinks. It's ok to disagree, just don't be disagreeable. I'm all about peace and love, I'm about freedom and independence, I am about freedom of choice. I stand behind what I say. I believe what I say and I speak from the heart. 
In your opinion when you watch a guy play, what are some habits/body language/traits that make a guy tough?
What is your favorite national park you have visted?
All the best, Bill. I love your work. My all-time favorite commentary moment is when you compared Boris Diaw to Beethoven's 3rd symphony. Do you have any favorite classical music works?
Mr. Walton the other day you posted on your twitter about potential Grateful Dead shows at Levi's Stadium in June then deleted the post. Is there going to be a show? When would tickets go on sale? Fare Thee Well in Chicago has drawn a lot of attention but will they do the show in Santa Clara as you have mentioned then retracted? There is a lot of buzz.
[deleted]
One of the problems in mass communication is that when somebody will come up to me and say "Bill, my brother's father's nephew's cousin's mother in law's maid's, gardner's postman said that you said that they heard from the grocery store clerk that you said this about that", it all gets very confusing. Just listen to the music play and please challenge me on what I say, not what you think I said or what somebody else told you about what they heard about what somebody else thought they heard. Or maybe you should ask that guy "Dave, right?" Bc he's sitting right there and he didn't hear it either.
Which coach did the most to elevate your talents- John Wooden, Dr. Jack, or K.C. Jones?
What was your favorite team to play on? Does a particular season in college or NBA stand out?
[deleted]
Hey Bill! Do you believe 'one and done' student athletes are hurting the college game? 
[deleted]
[deleted]
I love CBS. I got my national start in broadcasting from CBS 25 years ago and a lot of great friends and heroes helped build CBS. I strongly encourage everyone to read David Halberstam's 'The Powers That Be', and learn the history of this incredible company from Bill Paley, Edward R. Morrow, Walter Cronkite, Dan Rather, Bob Scheiffer, and all the current guys who are carrying the torch. The torch of freedom, information, entertainment, the torch of "We're going to do something to make this world better". 
[deleted]
I think you're the one eating pot brownies because Bill hasn't called a single NCAA tournament game. CBS/turner have all the rights to the tourney.
Respectable list. Every media outlet spun it as you calling His Airness average so my apologies. I respectably disagree about your previous comments about Michael not being top 3 but really appreciate the response!
Hi Bill,  What are some of the differences of working a game for the Pac12 networks vs. ESPN?
[deleted]
How much of what you say on air is said keeping in mind that some of us out there are playing Bill Walton bingo?
Hi Bill,  I was wondering what you favorite book is? If not book then favorite type of reading material.  Thanks!
I'm checking out Billy &amp; The Kids tomorrow night at The Capitol Theater in Port Chester. Can't wait. Ever catch any Dead shows at the Cap?
Do you think you could beat Abraham Lincoln in a knife fight?
Gotta tell you, Clean Bottles are the bomb.  What made you get involved with them? 
Thank you for the reply! 
What is your impression of the current UCLA basketball program. Is it fair for UCLA fans to maintain their high expectations year in and year out when in fact UCLA's last championship was 20 years ago and the previous one was long before that?
Favorite building on UCLA campus?
What do you think of Commissioner Silver? Do you think he'll end up pushing the marketization of the game as far as Stern did?
Bill, I've had the pleasure of listening in on many University of Arizona basketball games you've casted.   What's been your favorite moment in casting the PAC-12 basketball scene this year?
Mr. Walton, who is a player or coach that you have always felt doesn't get the recognition he deserves?
You're right. I was watching the Pac-12 conference.
Hey Bill, Thanks for doing an AMA.  I was wondering what your take is on the Fare Thee Well Tour. What are your views on Trey Anastasio, and how do you think he will fit in with the band?
How did you and Lori meet?
Are there any rules currently implemented in basketball (both on the professional and college level) that you wish would've been implemented while you were playing? And in reverse, are there any rules right now that you think are degrading the quality of the game?
Bill did say "chronological order," not in numerical order from 1st to 7th
After MJ,  who are the next 4 on your top 5 list?
Hey Big Red! I'm an Oregonian and long time Blazers fan. You and Arvydas Sabonis are my favorite Blazers of all time. What were some of your favorite places to go while you were living in Oregon? Do you go back and visit occasionally?
Bill, part of what made you so great was your ability to make the other guys around you better. Who are some players in the NBA now who you would have loved playing with and why?
He has previously said Jordan isn't top 3. I disagree  EDIT: Not allowed to think Jordan is top 3 I guess. Sorry Reddit
Lawson Walton?  Please tell me his middle name doesn't end in "on"
Is the Solar Teepee your man cave? Where might I acquire said teepee? For a friend.......
[deleted]
Please, my name is Bill. I connected with NRG through my great friends at Roth Capital, and I am a lifelong believer in solar. Solar energy is the biggest no-brainer in the history of the world. When I became aware of Kelcy Pegler, when I became aware of David Crane, and all the incredible people at NRG and their initiatives to make our world better, to focus on the critical elements in a world full of challenges, NRG production and resource management...What NRG, David, Kelcy and our team are doing, it's a dream come true for me. People who chose to make a positive difference - people who care about our world, our fellow human beings, the plants, the animals and all the living organisms that make up our universe, this is the most important thing in the world. We got Earth Hour coming up March 28th, 8:30 PM local time, Earth Day coming up April 22nd. I am proud, honored and humbled to be on the NRG Team. I have been on some of the greatest teams ever - UCLA, Portland Trailblazers, Boston Celtics, Grateful Dead - now I am on the NRG Team and we're going to do everything we can to make everything better. I stand tall and proud - I am with those guys. What I want to know is - are you kind, and will you come with me?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Hi Bill. Thanks for doing the AMA. what is your favorite era of the Grateful Dead? Will you be at the shows in Chicago?... And Do you have an extra for Chicago?
Hi Bill, Thanks for doing this AMA!  As a solar industry professional I think it's fantastic that you're using your celebrity to draw important attention to residential solar.  How do you see your impact influencing other current or former professional athletes in following suit to drive the mass market adoption of solar across the nation?  
Do you have a favorite Dead show that you've seen live? What made it your favorite? 
Congratulations to the newly expanded Walton Family!
Completely agree with you. The problems these days is the media wanting to spin everything that anyone says. Alright ill have to start listening to the music more then
Considering your injury history, what's your take on injuries in today's NBA and how the players have been treated?  In particular, what's your take on the Derrick Rose story and how he's been treated by the team, media, and fans?  Do you think there are more injuries today than in the past, or are we just more aware of them?  Any other thoughts?
Mr. Walton.     Your role in Little Nicky was riveting. When can we see you in other films? Also where do you see the bucks in 5 years. Thanks. 
Any time you are on a Championship Team  - those guys are your best friends for life. The greatest player I ever played against, by far, is Kareem. The greatest player I ever played with was Larry Bird. The greatest teammate was Maurice Lucas.The most dynamic, vibrant, exhilarating player I played against was Dr. J.  The greatest venues were wherever the greatest teams were, or where the Grateful Dead were playing the night before or the next after. 
How do you feel about Luke?
I still remember when my sister watched from Helix High, when she was a dorky freshman and you were a wonderful senior -- what a time that was.  She was 59/60, so I guess that would make you 62/63.  I don't really have any questions -- you were incredible as a basketball player and then after that an analyst; but I wonder if you can tell me something which most people regard a small or trivial, but which you take to heart?
Do you like widespread panic?
Thanks for the response, Bill! I'll be sure to grab a copy of that book. You're the man! 
What is your most memorable experience seeing The Dead?
Who do you enjoy watching more at full health, Westbrook or Durant?
[deleted]
How and why did you get into the Grateful Dead and how was the trip to Egypt with them?
Thanks Bill!  I loved watching you with Larry Bird, that was the best era in Basketball, bar none!
Bill, huge fan of what you have done for the game of basketball. I was wondering in your mind, who was your favorite player to play or play with during your great career?
Have you ever attended a major music festival? If so, what was your favorite experience? If not, would you ever consider going to one? 
[deleted]
Thanks for doing this Bill. Big fan! Your commentary makes games so much more enjoyable. What do you think of the current state of college basketball? Do you think rule changes are necessary? 
A majestic, PMA-infused glass of milk.
[deleted]
Will we ever have another larry bird type player dominate the game? I'm talking about slower, not really athletic, no dominant size. Can a player like that dominate in today's nba or is athleticism a must?
I love my teepee, I love my bike, I love Cortez, I love my jacuzzi, I love Lori. You can always come check our teepee out - never a problem, but if you want your own, go to tipi.com. As for my great friend Jeb, tell him you're a friend of mine. Open your heart, open your mind, open your spirit and soul, and let the sun shine in.   I am a human solar panel. I love my teepee - I used to live in it until I married Lori. Her idea of camping is when the Ritz Carlton goes to a limited menu at 4am.  
A few years ago I went up to you in a coffee shop to ask for an autograph for my uncle, another Bruin and a huge fan of yours. You were so kind to me and had some really inspirational things to say that I still think back on. Thank you for being such an approachable and genuine person.  My question is, what do you order at In-N-Out?
I'm getting me a tipi. And a friend named Jeb. 
1) Yes.   2) No. I love the refs, please check out my website - ilovetherefs.org, it's a charity.
Bill on a recent ESPN live broadcast you advocated for the NCAA to reform it's drug policy. Are advocating the legalization of all drugs for athletes including steroids, or just for marijuana?
Hi Bill!  I just wanted to thank you again - our company had you as a guest speaker last year at our conference in Arizona. You gave a wonderful talk about your life experiences and afterwards you hung around for individual pictures. I was really impressed that you took the time to have a long conversation with everyone who wanted to meet you (including me!). Other speakers we've hired in the past are nowhere as accessible and down-to-earth.  My question for you - out of all the NBA games you called as a commentator, which ones were the most memorable for you?
Do you do any charity work? And if so, how has that affected you and your family?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Mr. Walton, huge fan here. I have a two-parter for you: Did that ball just blow up, and is your hair a flame?
We were on tour with the Grateful Dead in Oregon. They were playing the show and they start playing Fire on the Mountain. The volcano next door, Mt. Helens, blows up. When the show was over a bunch of us raced to the airport and boarded a plane. We told people at the airport we were scientists studying atmospheric conditions and the effect of smoke and volcanic explosions on the human spirit,  so the pilot was terrified, but we convinced him to fly right into the smoking crater with fire and lava everywhere. He wanted to go home but we were on a scientific mission and we kept getting closer and closer. As we were flying around inside the erupting volcano, the military jets scrambled from the local base and come up there to get us out of there. It was a real dogfight but we had the spirit of Cortez on our side. We eventually left and when we landed at the airport the pilot was most relieved as we quickly fled and went back to the rest of the tour.
But Bill it was actually my brother's father's nephew's cousin's mother in law's maid's, gardner's DENTIST. Had you been *listening* you'd have known that. 
[deleted]
Hello! Do you prefer slow or fast *Friend of Devil*? Same question for St. Stephen and TLEO, please. 
[deleted]
I have seen NRG commercials and it seems like it is almost too good to be true. How feasible is it for the average home owner to get solar and to actually profit on it?
Bill..interested in how you came to be associated with NRG Home Solar and where do you believe the solar industry to be headed? 
Anxiously awaiting this answer... 
Thank you for this awesome answer. Ranking Dead shows is a fool's errand. 
Cortez has a very busy schedule. http://imgur.com/gallery/LWKI6QN
Are you still associated with that water bottle company from Shark Tank?
Hi Bill!  I just wanted to know the gigantic impact you had on a ten-year old kid living in Portland in 1977. Thank you for instilling in me the love of basketball!  Here's my question:  Did you ever get your bike back (the one that was stolen during the aftermath of the '77 championship)?  I remember hearing about it at the time, but don't recall the outcome.
What got you into solar over other alternative energies?
[deleted]
Bill, I didn't start following basketball until about 1980 so I missed a lot of your early career, but I was thrilled when you went to the Celtics. I was a huge Celtics fan, and it seemed like such a perfect fit for you and the team. Between your start in Portland and finishing up in Boston, you played in the NBA in pretty much two different eras. From a player's perspective, what were some of the major differences and changes in the league, and the game in general, between the mid-70s and mid-80's? 
I'm for anything and everything that helps the quality of life of the players, the people that are creating the product, and there has to be a modernization of everything. Focus on the quality of the product that encompasses the players receiving adequate consideration for their efforts and contributions. That includes the value of their scholarship, the quality of their life and the rules, restrictions and limitations that they live, play, and work under. Those rules should be standardized across the board for everyone involved in the business of sports, including administrators, executives, coaches, employees and players. Let's make it real, fair, current, let's make it modern, and authentic. We're all in this together.
You are an inspiration
Thank you!  Cortez,  Do you get to travel with Bill? Do you have a favorite Pac12 city or favorite truck stop to visit?
Hi Bill! Lon time fan. I have a ton of questions, but I really want to know one. Which teammates of yours have you dragged to a grateful dead concert? 
Hey Bill what would you say was the most important thing you learned from John Wooden? 
That sounds like some damn fine LSD..
[deleted]
Thanks!
And that's what an acid trip is like. 
Someone I know really loves to analyze sports - he lives, breathes and drinks sports like it's his life sustenance. What sorts of careers could he pursue, if he already has a four year degree in Sports/Health science?
Hi Bill!   How surprised are you with UCLA's Men's basketball record and then their subsequent tournament success this year?  Go Bruins!
Hey Bill, I have two questions: 1) Who is your current favorite player to watch and why? 2) How do you feel about the current draft situation? Do you agree with the one and done or do you think that players should stay in college longer?  Thank you
Hey Bill,  why do you hate U of A so much.  Also why are you right in hating U of A so much?
I'm a Team guy, I always have been a Team guy, and I learned that from the culture I grew up in that came from my parents, coaches, teachers, heroes and role models - particularly Bill Russell. I played to win. I am uncomfortable in a world of individual agendas. I am a team guy that is uncomfortable with the indvidulization of our lives because that minimizes and trivializes everyone's individual contributions. No one makes it to the top of the mountain alone.  Refer back to Oscarveli's question about how I feel about ranking or rating. As a parent of 4 children, I want what's best for our children. I want their dreams to come true. I want them to be happy, healthy, and to have the greatest lives possible, I am the luckiest and proudest dad in the whole world.
What's your favorite national park?
Jaxon flaxon-waxon
Bill, do you think my Irish have a good chance at beating Wichita state tonight? If they win, do you think they can win the whole thing? also you're one of my favorite athletes ever! God bless!
Have you ever taken LSD and what was it like?
As a NRG Home Solar employee I will tell you it is very feasible! Your home has to meet certain pre-conditions but if it does, it is a great opportunity to lower your utility costs while lowering our dependence on fossil fuels. Go to NRGHomeSolar.com for more information.  Good luck!
I would do it all. All I ever wanted in life was more. Ive had the honor and privilege of knowing all of these people in this life. I am reminded of Huey Long's last breath when he said, lying on his death bed after being gunned down because of his beliefs and his efforts to make the world better, he looked up at the physicians and staff members and said "Please God, don't let me die. There's so much more to do." I am 62 years old and I am just getting started.           
Thank you so much for your responses!  
Please read T. Harry Williams epic book "Huey Long". 
Hey Bill,  Thanks for doing this AMA.  As a recent UCLA alum, I wanted to know what your thoughts and impressions are on the direction our men's basketball team is heading?  What do you think of Coach Alford and what do you think of our Athletic Director, Dan Guerrero?  Go Bruins!
[deleted]
The pizza place where I work has a combo named after you. Mushroom, black olive, green pepper, red onion, tomato and zucchini. Do you approve?
It was easily one of the most exhilarating moments of my life and I rank that right up with the night that Adam Sandler at Neil Young's Bridge School concert personally sang "The 7 foot man" to me and 30,000 of my closest friends. 
this is the most amazing story ever  who's "we" that were on tour with the Dead? Like, following them around on tour, or were you actually affiliated with them?
Hi Bill, you once signed an autograph for me at a Seattle SuperSonics game so thanks for that!!  What is your favorite bike shop in the Phoenix, AZ area?
I peaked when I was 17 years old at 6'11. That night with Adam and Neil at Shoreline was right after my spine surgery 6 years ago. When Adam and Neil were singing, that's the closest I've ever been to 7 feet tall. Thanks for making me stand tall and proud on your side.
Will do!!  Thanks Bill, love your outlook and attitude. 
[deleted]
If you could be the color analyst alongside any broadcaster in history, who would you choose and why?
More. I love the In-N-Out. 
its number three on his list for that weekend j/k
Can you please touch upon the influence coach Wooden had on you as a person and how has that influence manifested throughout your life? What is the wisest thing he taught or mentioned to you?  I can imagine that would be a difficult choice. Thanks Bill
[deleted]
The color commentary is legendary. The color is red. 
Bill is Cortez named after Dan Cortez or Neil Young's song Cortez the Killer?
The Celtics 1986 team is widely regarded to be one of the two or three best teams of all time. However, many people were let down when the Lakers didn't advance to play you guys in the finals. Do you wish the Lakers would've beat the Rockets so you could've put an even bigger exclamation point on the season?
Not sure if that is some "off-menu" terminology, or Bill is just a hungry hippie. 
We all know you're quite the Deadhead but what music from the last few years have you enjoyed listening to?  P.S. Check out [The Sheepdogs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h_5q0n2mDR8)
I'm all about peace and love. We were just with Ringo the other night and he reinforced my longstanding commitment and dedication to those ideals. I like to win and I play to win. Coach Wooden's 2 favorite people on Earth were Abraham Lincoln and Mother Teresa. I used to love the tales that Coach Wooden would tell of he and Young Abe growing up together in the Midwest.
Hi Bill,                                                                                      Is there any chance that you would consider coming back to the Blazers as an Assistant coach and working with our big men?                                                                                                       Huge Blazer fan and fellow Deadhead (username obvious). I am happy to see you back at work. You are one of the best commentators in Basketball and enjoyed listening to you in the Pac12 tourney a few weeks ago. I know you had a riff with the Blazers for a long time, but I think things have been smoothed over. For the record .... I believe the Blazers have had a very poor training staff for decades. It isn't a fluke that we see medical problems with Brandon Roy, Greg Oden, etc. Then you look at teams like SA and they somehow keep Duncan on life support and he is still scoring 20+ points on good nights. Hopefully the Blazers have addressed this problem long term. You are a legend in this town and we would love you to come home.
Your commentary during games is always so enlightening, covering everything from the players and coaches to local fauna and geologic formations (especially in the Pac-12, the world's most diverse conference).  How do you prepare for each game?  Do you rely on your encyclopedic knowledge of the world, or do you study and assemble the deep scouting report?
THROW IT DOWN, BIG MAN!   THROW IT DOWN?
[deleted]
I know you, Wilkes, Lee, etc took academics very seriously at UCLA. What classes did you enjoy the most?   Thanks! I love hearing the respect you have for guys like Chasson Randle! No truck stops in this conference!
[deleted]
What was it like being coached by John Wooden?  And, how do you feel about the way Virginia plays the game under Tony Bennett? Full disclosure, I'm a huge UVA fan so I love everything about our brand and what Coach Bennett has done, but we certainly have our detractors. Just curious as to how you feel. You're the man.
[deleted]
What was the deal with tweeting, then deleting, the Santa Clara dates?
[deleted]
I grew up under the umbrella of John Wooden. Every coach I had as a child was a John Wooden disciple and then I had the privilege and honor for playing for John Wooden. I played my best basketball with the Portland Trailblazers. Jack Ramsey made me the best player I ever was, and K.C. Jones, Red Auerbach, Larry Bird and the Boston Celtics, they did not just give me my career back, they gave me my life back. I thank them all. I just wish that I could have done more for them in return. In life, our mission is to search for, find, and learn from the master teachers. I am the luckiest guy in the world. I played for Coach Wooden, Jack Ramsey, and K.C. Jones - who was so good, the Grateful Dead wrote a song about him. We love those guys and we would do anything for them. That's when you know you're on a really special team.
Bill, how do you quantify who is the best of all time?  I feel like the game today is so much faster, stronger and better.   Do you think if the greats like Magic, Bill and Oscar played in todays game, they would put up the same numbers?  I feel like if Lebron, Kobe, Shaq played in those times they would have dominated no questions asked.
UCLA is a perfect example of a basketball program that has been hindered by athletes leaving early. Do you think there should be a mandatory 4 year commitment from players to a university?
Sweet Wooden-Lincoln burn. 
Egypt Bill? Also is Bob Weir really a Duke fan? 
Living in Madison, I was proud to hear David Lemieux on the XM Grateful Dead channel say that the Dane County Coliseum was one of the venues the Dead always went above and beyond in terms of energy (along with the Capital Theater, Winterland, and the other usual suspects of places). What was your favorite venue to catch the Dead in? Also, any interest in making it out to Madison to call a Badgers game? I love it when we play PAC12 teams and you get the call.
That's so awesome! Thanks for the kick ass reply
I've never wanted to be milked so much in my entire life 
Was Michael Jordan actually a jerk in real life? Do you have any interesting stories?
Give him another copy of "On the Origin of Species"
[deleted]
Thanks for the reply! This is the only correct response.  
Would you rather play basketball with Snoop Dogg the rapper or write a song with Snoop Dogg the basketball player?
Dave Pasch, you asch
THROW IT DOWN BIG MAN
Bill, I was born far too late to see you play in person ('88), and I've learned about your career mostly through old game video, stories from some of my father's friends, and Bill Simmons. And I apologize because I'm about to tell you a somewhat lengthy story:  I spent a winter coaching youth basketball (5th &amp; 6th graders) in a rec league and we had a kid on the team named Jonah who was a little bit taller than most of the kids in the league, pretty athletic, and a really good rebounder.   He was my favorite player on the team, not because he was our best player, but because he was our best teammate. The league is technically non-competitive and my one goal for the season was for everyone on the team to score at least once in the season...and we had two kids who could rarely even get the ball to the rim, so I was concerned it wouldn't happen. Late in the season, I call Jonah over to the sideline and ask him to get one of those kids who hasn't scored yet a shot. He nods, runs back onto the court and hands the ball to the kid he's setting up at the top of the key, gestures at the kid to follow him and then rolls to the hoop. It was the most egregious moving pick I've ever seen but the defense stepped away from Jonah and his teammate just followed him down the paint, flung the ball up and hit the shot. Everyone went nuts, but I think Jonah was the most excited kid on the team that it had worked.   The entire season was like that. He knew that he could have gone for thirty points every game (and we'd have "won" a ton of games despite not keeping score), but he liked setting his teammates up better. In Simmons's book, you told him that your favorite part of the game was starting the fast break. You'd like this kid. So thank you, Mr. Walton, for playing a part in teaching me the right way to play. I'm proud to say I've been able to pass it along to some of the kids I've coached. The only thing more amazing than your talent (which was immense, and thank you for '86 btw) is the way your heart showed in your approach to the game. My favorite players from before my time are Bill Russell, Larry Bird, and you. I love great players who raise the tide for all boats.  And I guess I should have a question for you if you went to the trouble of reading this. *Which current NBA big man has a game most like yourself?*
Any chance we can get you, Dave and Dick Vitale commentating a game together? Pretty please?
[deleted]
Bill Walton, I sat a couple of rows behind you at a July 4th Dylan+Dead concert at Foxboro stadium back in the 1980s.  At first, I was "Hey that's Bill Walton!", then I realized I would be sitting behind someone nearly 7 feet tall at the concert.  My question is, why didn't you hold your phone over your head to block my view?
I'm looking to travel the west more. Can you give me recommendations? 
Hi Bill,  What is your fondest memory of Jerry Garcia?  Thanks! :)
[deleted]
Do you think you could take me 1v1 in pickup? (D calls fouls)
Thanks Bill, this is some great life advice. You forgot to add on a cheer for the mighty Bruins though
[deleted]
Hi Bill, I'm a recent Bruin alum, now back at UCLA for my PhD, and I am one of the moderators of /r/ucla, our community on this site. I just wanted to say thank you for representing our school so well!  I had two questions:  What is the best advice Coach Wooden ever gave you?  What do you think of UCLA's chances vs Gonzaga tomorrow?
A man his size who does so much has gotta be fueled. Add in the munchies, and he'll be racking up double-doubles week in and week out. 
Pretty sure he just means other deadheads
oh herro birr,  as UCRA grad, u very bic boi and u put barr in basket. as a former UCRA prayer, what do u think are chances are against doge? do we cook doge tomorrow rike we do at UCRA?  thanks bic boi!
[deleted]
Better than Jaxon Waxoff.
What are your thoughts on the argument that the amount of NBA Championship rings adds value to a player's legacy?
[deleted]
He traveled in the band's inner circle.  Made the trip with them to Egypt, etc.
I've got nipples, can you milk me?
Are you coming to the Bay Area for the Dead shows in June?
What are your favorite dead songs?
I was all ready to donate fake money to the fake cause you support :(  Get the fake Rex Foundation police on this fake case ASAP!
Who has the best name in college basketball right now? Would you change your name to theirs if given the opportunity? 
You can never go wrong with a Dick pick.  
[deleted]
[Tyrone "Smoochie" Wallace](http://www.calbears.com/ViewArticle.dbml?ATCLID=207769714&amp;DB_OEM_ID=30100) is a real person!
Bill, I love when you announce games, because you often share facts/experiences about the different PAC 12 schools and cities.  Do you think that it's important for viewers to learn non-basketball information while watching games? If so, why? And has anybody ever told you to stop?
[deleted]
Not like ol' Billy Boy up there can!
Can you really smell colours and feel sounds????
perhaps 2 extras?  I need a miracle...
I missed the chronological order part..yes, that's a perfect way to answer the question, trying to directly compare players like Big O and MJ who are from different eras is an exercise in futility.
So, did the game inside the paint get any easier when they switched from peach baskets to nets?  ;-)
Hey Bill! What is your favorite food? Also, if you could be any type of tree what which would you be. Looking forward to your next commentary. 
Ha, Greg is the brother of my high school English teacher. Tried to get him to bring Bill in since they were good friends and had Christmas cards from him posted in the class, but it never did happen.
Just listen to the music play heheh (~);}
What was john wooden like as a coach?
What state is better, California or Colorado?
Bill, as a young man currently working in the solar field in NJ, I'm curious about making the jump from my current company over to NRG. How could you convince me that NRG is a superior company to others?
Bill! Is Pistol Pete your favorite player?
Cortez is a good looking pup!
After years of turning down interviews, why have you now decided to do an AMA on Reddit? Are you promoting a new Calvin &amp; Hobbes book?
What was your favorite dead show you ever went to? What current bands are you listening to these days?
Bill will you be in Chicago for the fare the well concert? How do you feel about Trey Anastasio filling in for Jerry Garcia? Where will you be sitting (or standing)?
[deleted]
i like T Harry Williams novel more than "all the kings men". Great recommendation!
Are you still a fan of Toucher and Rich?
These responses are such hilarious tangents that I feel like I'm watching an Arizona vs UCLA game.
http://deadspin.com/5568179/boston-sports-radio-show-hangs-up-on-bill-walton 
Bill, what was San Diego and the environment at Helix Valley High like when you were in high school? 
Big fan since the KCOP 13 days with your buddy Ralph.  Indica, sativa or hybrid?
Who do you think will win WVU or Kentucky?
It is nearly 100% confirmed that the same lineup with Trey and Bruce will be playing two nights at Levis! 
What did Coach Wooden do/say when he found out that you had sent Nixon an anti-war letter on Wooden letterhead?  Go Zona!
This comment should be framed in a museum
He's been to over 600 Dead shows. So I guess you could say he's a superfan.
"It's always playing all the time, we just tap into it"
Great recommendation! Every history buff should read it.
[deleted]
rr[]()[]()[]()
[deleted]
Who is your favorite player in the NBA today? Who do you think deserves MVP? Who do you see coming out of the West? East? Who wins the NBA Finals? Thank you, Mr. Walton for doing this AMA.
Bill I was not one of your fans until this response. Many people can learn many things from it.
You tried to milk him didn't you, you sick sonovabitch?!
[deleted]
Walton traveled with the band when he wanted. Lifetime backstage pass type guy. 
Paid for one of the charter flights, or so the story goes
Did that show make it to Dick's Picks?
Got any extras?
[deleted]
Do you remember Richard "Dick" Walton from the B school?
[deleted]
Do you smoke marijuana?
Yes
Hey Bill! Who do you think was the best player you played with at UCLA and in the NBA?
I can't even imagine the drugs..
why 30? make it nba rules. there's no reason to go through 2 sets and bring it out with still 20 on the clock when they're trying to score. 
There you go...  Couldn't remember the exact quote.  Thanks man! 
[deleted]
there's about 50 years solid of the NBA clock being 24 and NCAA never approaching 24.  Getting NCAA to 30 might be a lil tough, and I don't think 24 is gonna be a viable idea.
I tore my ACL playing basketball in the Radcliffe gym in the early 90s. You were there. You walked over and looked down at me and said something like "Hey man, you tore your ACL." We all thought you were wrong. But you were right.  Do you remember this?
Walton, you straight up MADE UA games this year. How do you come up with the topics you want to rant about? 
Did you really say that Kobe Bryant is the "best inbound passer of all time" if so, what made you say that?
[deleted]
I see the deadhead in the title drew you in as well.
Why such a long face Bill?
Got an extra ticket to the Fare Thee Well shows?  I need a miracle!
Are you related to THE Walton family?
Mike Jones
Dave's not here!
This has to be a question so....why the hell are you still on tv? your voice is awful and all you do is berate pasch. I'm glad pac games aren't on til midnight on the ec 
Because no one would tune in
your ripped  
that might be the most inspirational thing I have ever read. Truly you can do anything
WSMFP
You're amazing!  
extremely disappointed that he didn't answer this 
Yeah buddy
Pretty sure my buddy got stuck standing behind his at a show.
[deleted]
&gt; ilovetherefs.org  Yes I looked it up, no it doesn't exist. 
Hey Bill (btw I'm a Trail Blazer fan) will you choose the Portland Red and Black over the Celtic Green?  *Thank you for giving the city of Portland it's only NBA championship
I'm going to have to take you up on that offer to check out your teepee.
I know I'm a day late to this party but had to join.  I work in college athletics and was in SoCal for a work conference in February.  The night before we flew back east we went to a USC/Oregon game at the Galen Center and it turns out it was on ESPN2.  Bill, you were commentating so we figured we'd try to get a picture with you post game.  Turns out you're one of the nicest dudes ever and you even have picture rules! No hats! You stand here, you over here, and you in the middle.  I told you to give a shout out to the JMU Dukes and you knew exactly what I was talking about.  And you told me the girl I was with was beautiful and I should tell her how lucky I was to have her.  The funny part is she's my girlfriend's best friend and had just moved out west but we didn't fight you on it because it was too confusing to clarify with tons of others trying to get pictures too. My question is, do you remember us? And will you shout out the JMU Dukes on a broadcast?  Here's the picture of us - http://imgur.com/kE7xUGO
I'm sure he had some Owsley   
Even better than Waxon Jaxoff.
Any juicy Larry Bird or Kevin McHale stories? 
basketball fan here. I got the joke. And laughed. 
MJ average jumping ability?! wtf...what is above average then?
Who doesn't love the ol in-n-out?
[deleted]
TIL cbs had the yams
Brett did 
Bill, if you ever want to see Haiti and help cover this place in solar panels, I'd be happy to show you around!  All the Best, Pat from Boston
fifa is moving to the 24 second shot clock, if we can agree on pro/international we can see what's good for the game 
Shameless corporate plug. Account age 1 day and your question to the legendary Bill Walton is about some corporation? Nice try, solar company...
Better than waxon Jaxoff
lol so much trash talk
He's a closed minded guy who took offense when Bill Walton gifted him *The Origin of Species* as a congratulations gift when Dave won Arizona Sportscaster of the Year award. Dave said live on air that he doesn't believe in evolution and then said some kind of stupid things (like low IQ kind of things) live on air about it when doing a game with bill.
I think we can add Lebron James to the end of that list. I truly feel he fits there.
Who?
"Good morning, Mr. Walton and welcome to In-n-Out.  What can I get for you?"  "MORE."  
Dam didn't see this until now.  Tell me about Bobby Gross. He was amazing in the playoff against Philly and made J look like a chump.  How did you learn to pass so beautifully?  Who was the one player you would have loved to play with?  What the hell happened with your foot? Broke my heart when you went down and I'm a warrior fan.  More later if you are still around
How did you feel about being a proferssional basketball player? Did you face any difficulty when you being a basketball player?
What made you to become a basketball player? 
**Hi Bill!** One of my favorite memories of Summer 1977 was watching you play ball at **Wallace Park**.     All summer I had a zillion questions I wanted to ask, and all summer I hung by the drinking fountain hoping to get up enough courage to say something.  FINALLY my moment happened! You paused to get some water, I stepped up, and then froze.  All I could think of to say was,   **"Hi Bill!"**.     I seem to remember Lionel playing at the park too.  Did other Blazers come around too?  Did the team spend time off the court, as friends?  Or was it mostly business as usual?      *Thank you for being awesome, and for being one of the best NBA players, and for being wonderfully accessible. ****peace***
What do you miss the most about playing in the NBA ?!
How badly would you dominate Luke in your prime?
[deleted]
I can. 
My thought too, that list ended in 1998.
