[deleted]
Hey guys, big fan of the Surface since the announcement of the originals.  1) Why micro/full sized USB over USB-C?  2) Can I have one?  Thanks
Can you upgrade my surface 2 to a surface 3? But seriously, what does the surface team think the most significant improvement is between the surface 3 and surface 2?
Any Chance we will see an external GPU for the Surface Pro line anytime soon? 
Can I have one?
[deleted]
I'm the Community Moderator in the Surface Forum that supports your customers in the Microsoft Answers/Community. I'm a MVP but not a Surface MVP. How do I get an advance Surface 3 so that I can continue to support your customers on day 1 when Surface 3 launches? See my profile for a glimpse into how I support your customers at  http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/profile/3593e873-3f5a-4201-8bd0-6e127a58c1c8. I need an advance unit. Can you make this happen?
[deleted]
I have a question about the design  particularly about the thickness and weight. In the era of 6mm (430-450 g) iPads, Galaxy Tabs and Xperias, why Surface 3 is almost as thick as Surface RT from 2012? I mean its only .4 mm thinner than SP3 (24nm Core i5/i7 with fan) while having fanless 14nm Atom inside. Im sure therere some design/hardware reasons. But can you clarify if is it the hinge, battery, full USB or the processor that forced to stay at the ~9mm in thickness?  PS: thank you for the Surface 3 with LTE! Already preordered one for my wife who is in the middle of her PhD. I think it stop her from envying my Surface Pro 3 ;)
Miracast is badly broken on the SP3. THE SP3 is not Miracast certified and the Surface 3 materials thus far dont use the word Miracast anywhere. SP3 wont negotiate with Miracast certified devices  Samsung in particular. This has been an on-going issue and there is no evidence that anyone sees this as a priority or is willing to fix and submit for certification. Will you fix the SP3 and get the Surface 3 up to spec PRIOR to launch and if not, why not?
[deleted]
sir..any plan for surface 3 for indian students ???
Why is there no hosted networks functionality in the SP3?
in Italy Surface 3 costs  609,  159 keyboard, does not it seem a bit pricey considering that other tablet with Windows and baytrail cost little more than 100 ? Do not you think it is appropriate to reconsider the prices to not make the same mistake made with Surface RT? you have benchmarks that show the differences between core and M Cherrytrail of Surface 3?
Will there be external GPU on Surface Pro 4? That way it can replace a desktop as well. You mention something like this in last Surface Pro 3 AMA. But there wasn't anything like that.
Will there be any unique deals for Surface 3 or its accessories for students?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Would you consider giving one Surface 3 for my mother in law? :) It never hurts to ask. She needs a tablet that can act as a PC and the Surface 3 seems to be a perfect fit for her needs.
Any chance we can get an updated video driver for the SP3? Windows 10 has destroyed the stability of the displayport out, making the device kinda useless in my case. 
USB power to DVD and USB hard drives. While the SP3 might be to spec, it doesnt power peripherals very well. The new Surface 3 is more of a consumer device than the SP3 and there will be lots more people wanting to use these external peripherals. What should we expect?
With the Surface 3 being announced, when can we expect an updated Surface Pro and will it have an optional 4G/LTE option?  We started rolling the SP3 out to our sales field this year and so far they have loved it.
Have you considered creating a Surface user voice to gather feedbacks from your customers :)?
Why didn't you put USB Type-C on the Surface 3?
Any chance of a Surface Phone?
[deleted]
Do you hate my country Turkey? Because I've asked if Surface will be on sale in my country last year, and you said it's on top of your list. But still, it's not on sale here. Why are you ignoring my country, Turkey?
[deleted]
Hi Surface Team!  One question I know the /r/surface community has been asking is, is there ever going to be a Surface dock with an external GPU built in? This would fully allow a lot of people to get rid of their desktop and use the Surface for every one of their computing needs.    Also I know this worked last time so if I get enough up votes can I have a Surface 3? My original Surface Pro is on its last legs.  
Huge fan of the Surface, but I (unlike what most of the media says) liked Windows RT. The problem wasn't that it couldn't run legacy apps. The problem was that it had a desktop making one think that it could run legacy apps. Will there be a version of Windows 10 that runs on ARM that will only run WinRT apps and does not have a desktop?
[deleted]
Are we getting a Pro 3 at BUILD (please)?  Any way to integrate an embedded dock for the stylus?
Any chance future Surface tablets will be 4:3?
micro USB ... enables charging through all the chargers out there today. Optimized for charger (13W) in box.  Full size USB...no adapters needed for everything in market today. 
[deleted]
Will the Surface ever launch in India? :(
I'm glad MS decided not to kill of the non-Pro line. I had an RT, Surface 2 and I am currently using a Surface Pro 3. I like the price point the Surface 3 (except still feel a keyboard should be included since its such an essential piece for the Surface experience). Is there a chance of MS releasing a higher end Surface with discrete graphics? Currently most OEMs don't build to the same quality as MS and I would like to have a high powered Surface that I can play games on. 
What Windows 10 features can Surface RT and Surface 2 users expect to see?
Will we see a Touch Cover 3 for the Surface 3? Touch Cover 2 may be the most innovative hardware I own. Simply genius.
[deleted]
Hi, I love the work you have done with the Surface 3, and I cannot wait to get my hands on one!  Does the Surface 3 contain the hardware to utilise any of the Windows 10, Windows Hello features?  Thanks
There are a bunch of things - but I'd highlight a few that are really all about taking the best of Pro and bringing it to Surface 3: 1. full windows - run all apps. 2. screen and aspect ratio - 3:2 makes a big difference in height for using as a laptop and width when using as a note taker which gets us to ... 3. PEN. Also love that we have a dock.
Is the Surface 3 ready for Windows Hello? Will the Surface pro 4 be ?
Yes!  Surface 3 is a great product for students and Microsoft Stores offers a 10% discount on the device and accessories.
Why did the team decide to ditch the Surface text logo for the Microsoft logo?
Hi, Why the logo changed again ?
[deleted]
The only missing thing to replace my desktop pc by my Surface pro is the possibility to plug an external GPU between the Surface Pro and the screens to play games that require a bit more graphics power than the integrated Intel HD. Have you anything to share on this subject? 
Why not USB-C like Apple and Google have transitioned to? Will there be a Microsoft USB to USB C converter anytime soon?
Does Surface 3 support Always On Always Connected (Connected Standby)?
I have used Miracast via both the Actiontec ScreenBeam and Microsoft Display adapter with little problem.  The only issues I have are when Cisco VPN is installed.  Haven't tried with any Samsung products.
Does Surface 3 support Connected Standby/ InstantGo? 
Considering the imminent launch of Windows 10, wouldn't it have been appropriate to launch Surface 3 as a flasghip Windows 10 device.?
Will USB-C be a consideration in the future?
2 questions:  How well does the Surface 3 handle a bunch of Bluetooth connected devices? Say I have a BT KB/Mouse plus a headset for listening on Xbox Music and I'm also syncing my FitBit. Any issues?  How about the WiFi? Any issues like the SP3 had?
[deleted]
Hi there, congrats on your wife's PhD. The answer to your question is "a little bit of all" :) ... meaning: The combination of a powerful machine, with all day battery life, full USB and a great kickstand results in 8.7mm. this is the fittest device we could create by not removing these essential elements. I think it's pretty fit :)
[deleted]
we have a lot! we do a number of things - we have a lot of fans that we are personally connected with that are great with feedback (e.g. see this from this week http://www.penny-arcade.com/news/post/2015/04/01/surfacela), we have great and vocal business CIOs that are part of a formal advisory council, we have regular surveys that go out, and we really do rely on the feedback that we get in the Surface app (you can get it in the windows store).
I think the *real* answer is that this Cherry Trail processor only handles USB 3.0 and not 3.1. It's just not platform-supported and given that this is a Surface, there's probably no room to add the add'l hardware to support this.
[deleted]
Even it is a Aprilfool... 1)Is it really possible to make a Phonecall through MS-DOS Mobile? I find out that you can open at least the contacts with it. 2)Do a Full list of commands for MSDOS Mobile exists?   Thanks
Im interested in how the pressure sensitivity performs with Ntrig drivers for apps that need them on the new Surface 3. The community has been vocal about performance issues when drawing slowly. Output is wavy as opposed to straight lines. See http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/forum/surfpro3-surfupdate/surface-3-wavy-diagonal-lines-when-inking/78c138e5-50db-4544-a988-6023a84b9675 - can you talk about the performance when drawing slowly?
Hey there SurfaceTeam! Thanks for taking time to do this AMA. As a design student that loves working on his Surface Pro 3, I was so excited to see the behind the scenes look at the development of the Surface 3 and its prototypes a few days ago. However, it just whet my curiosity even more. After hearing Neowin's remarks on the cancelled Surface Mini (http://www.neowin.net/news/the-surface-mini-was-real-and-i-got-to-play-with-one) I was wondering if we could ever get a look at it just a picture or two perhaps? :)
I enjoy the connected standby-ness of my Surface RT. I can press the powerbutton to turn off the screen, and still listen to music and stream video to my smart TV. Will the Surface 3 be able to do InstantGo (Connected Standby)? 
Surface Pro 4 would be a better flagship for W10
Hey there SurfaceTeam! Thanks for taking time to do this AMA. One issue many artists, myself included, encounter on the Surface Pro 3 is the diagonal line jitter issue: http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/forum/surfpro3-surfupdate/surface-3-wavy-diagonal-lines-when-inking/78c138e5-50db-4544-a988-6023a84b9675?page=1&amp;tm=1428076566396 It seriously compromises the Surface Pro 3 and Surface 3 as an artist's device. What steps are being taken with N-Trig to fix this problem?
Could I use the Surface 3 for video editing? I don't need to edit videos all the time, but if I do, I'd like to know if the Surface 3 is a good, affordable option to do it without having problems. Thanks!
I loved the pen on the surface pro, I purchased a pro 3 without even thinking about it and the pen is jittery when drawing slowly and very hard to do serious artwork with. It seems to be a very common problem, can Microsoft fix this?
Behavior is just like Surface Pro 3. 4 hours of connected standby, then into hibernate.
why surface pen is separated basic component? however, i still want to get it :)
Will I be able to play The Sims 4 on the new Surface 3 4gb 128gb ? Is the surface pro 3 a better fit for this game ?
So I own the Surface Pro 3 and was really happy with it (I even did an AMA http://www.reddit.com/r/laptopama/comments/2af1zu/ama_about_the_microsoft_surface_pro_3/)  Then the day came when it fell off my bed. It now looks like this (http://imgur.com/a/UHe9E). I did some quick thinking, and disabled the touch screen just to salvage it. I can now only use it as a desktop as it is too delicate to transport, and does not work without the keyboard anyway (No more onenote notes using the pen). Is there any hope of you guys hooking up a poor student with a new one? I really did love this product. Thanks Surface Team, dont let me down! 
Deniz, tekrar selamlar -- gecen sefer de sormustun :-). Biz de Turkiye de gormek istiyoruz en kisa zamanda, ama ne zaman oldugunu su anda soyleyemiyorum. 
[deleted]
Does the N-Trig Digitizer add thickness?
My Surface RT is in almost mint condition, and though I've been \*very\* happy with the device, I'm considering upgrading to the Surface 3 - I'd love me some scribbling on the screen and the 3:2 screen ratio. Will Microsoft make some kind of program, where Surface RT owners can get a discount on the Surface 3 if they send in their Surface RT to Microsoft? 
[deleted]
I hope the Surface 4 has USB Type-C. There are already a number of peripherals coming and with Google and Apple selling devices with the port, it seems like the Surface 3 won't support any of the new peripherals being made for other devices. I just hope it won't be over a year until we see the Surface 4, any timeframe on a new device?
Now that Microsoft is removing the touch UX from Windows 10 more or less. How do you motivate customers to still invest into the surface products?  
Windows 10 guts out a majority of the powerful edge gestures and "power user" interface elements like semantic zoom. These had a higher learning curve, but lead to a better experience once mastered.  Do you feel that removing these lessons the usability of a device like the Surface?
When will Surface Pro 3 and Surface 3 be made available in India?  I want to buy it. What is best option for me to get it here?
This is my biggest beef with the Surface 3. If it's not part of this generation, I doubt it'll be part of the next.
The Surface 3 is great but one of my key interests in the Surface 2 was that it gave me a great device I could recommend to my hillbilly family that would "just work" and the amount of tech support I had to provided was MUCH lower due to drivers, crapware, malware, and viruses. As such, are there any plans to bring back an RT-like version of Windows in the future? Would the yet-to-be-seen version of Windows 10 for small tablets perhaps provide this type of experience?
Can you send me a Surface 3? (Worth a shot) :)
[deleted]
[deleted]
there isn't a plan right now. we definitely want to at some point though!
[deleted]
Does abandoning the Surface RT feel anything like leaving a child to die in the snow?  Seriously though, are Surface RT owners *at least* going to get a half update (Windows 8.10?). The same thing happened with Windows Phone 7.8, and it was better than nothing.
We are so aware of this.. drivers are under test. When we have one working to our satisfaction, we will make it available. We dogfood the same stuff, and we are feeling the same pain. 
Can I please have a Surface 3 now? I literally cannot wait for release!
Will the Surface 3 support virtualization so I can run the device emulators in Visual Studio Express? The Surface 3 could potentially be used as a small development machine. I could use the time pendling to work, to mess around in Visual Studio and get my mind ready for work.
Is the magnetic power cable being replaced by Micro-USB on all future models? 
why did it take so long for you'll to switch to the 3:2 aspect ratio? Also, can i have one haha?
Big fan - Pro 3 owner here. Interested in what you think about potential password killers like fingerprint sensors, 3D cameras for logins. It's something I'd appreciate on my next Surface Pro - is it something you have discussed?
While the Surface Pro 3 was an excellent machine, it wasn't an excellent laptop. Any plans to eliminate the need for the kickstand by either a) making a laptop or b) making a keyboard that somehow holds up the Surface on its own?
I guess you answered on wrong question. This one was about eGPU :). And Apple have one of it's biggest store here in Turkey. What is wrong with the Surface and Turkey?
this is a tablet that also works like a laptop. it's an amazing, high quality device. you can get some great windows tablets and laptops for much cheaper. one of the cool things about windows is that you have so many choices. we're proud surface is one of the best!
We realized that a Surface contains all of what we as Microsoft has to offer. It is the physical extension of a software experience. To reflect that, we thought it was more appropriate to carry the Microsoft mark. And we all liked this idea :)
Hey folks. I firstly wanted to say that I appreciate all of your work.  1) Do you guys have thoughts on users wanting a dock that has a graphics card built into it? Could that be something we could see in the future?  2) Are there plans for a power keyboard for SP3? 
Wow.  You are the perfect Son in Law.  Consider mothers day... she will love it. 
With the Surface 3, will we have to wait 7 months for a decent WiFi driver?
Can we convert the charging micro-USB port to a full-size USB port with an adapter, and then plug in any USB device to it?
Why no continuous kickstand like SP3?
Hello Surface Team,  I'm a huge fan of Surface. I have a Surface Pro 3 and I use it all the time as a college student. I also happen to run a radio show on campus and I want to start doing tech reviews. How do tech journalists get ahold of Surface 3s to review? I would like to do a review/live Q&amp;A session on my show.  Or I could [pull a /u/SailRacerX](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/26m9cu/we_are_panos_panay_and_the_surface_team_at/chse71j) and just ask for one. Please?  On to more questions: What happened to the pen loop? Is it gone - the whole announcement video shows pens clipped to the type cover. Will we still have the option to purchase it? I've found it to be better placed on the device itself than on the Type Cover.  edit: has anyone tried Minecraft on the device? Saw it in the announcement video, I'd like to know the performance.
Hey /u/NotCassin -- try the Surface App in the store. It has a place for you to give direct text feedback, and we read and value that feedback very much. We both have an automated system to pull out keywords/trends as well as we get the full text. 
Is there any chance at you recreating the fabled Surface Mini, or is this as far as you will go?  Maybe a Surface Mini that's also a phablet???
The Surface Pro line has been quite popular with artists, and even after the switch to N-Trig, the SP3 has proven to be a very capable digital art tool. While N-Trig is currently very good, there is still a lot of  room for making it an even better system for drawing. For example, the configuration options for the pen is still very lacking, and the pen's pressure curve remains very low fidelity even with the config tool in the Hub app. Now that Microsoft owns N-Trig, can we expect to see improvements in the pen digitizer for the SP4? 
Does the Surface 3 with LTE have a GPS chip? This feature is vital to compete with the iPad for people in the field. Lots of on-site professionals need it for EXIF data and the like. It's the only thing holding me back from pushing my company to switch from iPads. 
I am hoping the Complete warranty will cover us there. 
1) I saw a tremendous performance jump going from the Surface RT to the Surface 2. Will the bump in performance be as noticeable going from the 2 to the 3?  2) Any chance the Surface 2 will get the new Xbox Windows 10 app to allow game streaming?  
Will there be a surface pro 4 release in 2015?
1) A company like Microsoft is expected to be an early adopter of USB-C to speed up mainstream adoption. When then, can we expect adoption of this tech from Microsoft?  2) How committed is the Surface team to the 3:2 aspect ratio? It's certainly better than 16:9 or 4:3 for me, but I still feel 16:10 is best. Is there a similar kind of aspect ratio commitment in the Lumias?  3) Why choose to omit the friction kickstand from the Surface 3?
The design of every Surface so far has been marvelous, do you plan to introduce other type of device in the future? (Small tablets, phones or laptop?)
Hello, There has been a lot of reporting from artists (including myself) who use the SP3 of a distinct "jitter" to the Pen when trying to make slow careful passes. This jitter makes creating fine smooth lines near impossible. You can get a good idea of the problem at this forum: http://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/forum/surfpro3-surfupdate/surface-3-wavy-diagonal-lines-when-inking/78c138e5-50db-4544-a988-6023a84b9675?page=1&amp;tm=1428084568215  Are there any plans to fix this flagrant error in the Pen or will those who have reported this problem continue to be met with skepticism and denial from Microsoft and N-Trig support?
[deleted]
hi guys, will we be seeing a power cover release for the sp3 or s3?
Will Microsoft use USB C in its next Pro device?
[deleted]
I don't know that that's true.  USB 3.1 Type C Generation 1 is the same USB data bandwidth as USB 3.0, and generation 1 is what the Chromebook and Macbooks both use.  My guess would be that Windows 8.1 doesn't fully support a multi-functional Type C port, as there was a WinHEC talk specifically about Windows 10 introducing support for USB Type C Dual Mode and similar things.
Firstly - congrats to whole Surface team. Fantastic job!  Secondly - Is there a plan to expand the territory where Surface products are sold? I am from Europe and except the main markets, Surface is not available. I would like to buy one, but having it delivered (e.g. from Germany) via postal services is not the risk I would want to take. Surface is not the cheapest thingy :/  Thanks a lot.
Hello Panos, et al. My question for you is multi-part: Does the S3 support 4k displays at 60Hz? Also can you tell the folks that run the MS Online Store that the EDU discount is not working for the S3 accessories? 
Any relation between Hololens and next gen Surface is on the road? Maybe something like air gestures via camera or 3d camera built in?
What do you think was the most difficult part of designing the Surface Pro 3? 
It's April now, and it starts to ship in May. Microsoft need to time to a) gauge market reaction, and then b) ramp up production (hopefully) for the back to school period, since the best bet Surface 3 has is with students. 
Do you have plans to release an LTE/3G version that is internationally unlocked? I've been looking for a Full windows tablet with unlocked 3G/4G/LTE for about 4 years now and have not had any success. The Surface models (Although were Win RT) were carrier locked and I got no responses from Microsoft or the carriers about being able to unlock them. Other Manufacturers have announced models (...thinkpad 10) with no availability in sight. Is there a reason why Microsoft only releases locked LTE models? Is it that difficult to release an unlocked model and if so can you explain what the difficulty is with it?  Other than that I would like to congratulate the team on two exceptional products. I'm stuck using the original surface pro at the moment but that is one amazing product and so are the pro 2 &amp; 3 and now also the surface 3. Great work guys!
What can you tell us about the Surface Pro 4 other than that it will not be released until Windows 10 drops?
Do you mean a Pro 4?
What are you going to do, to provide the ebst Surface experience in Wondows 10, because the Tablet mode in the current builds is kind of awkward?
Ok, we understand why you went with micro-USB. I think most of us want a good explanation of why there isn't Type-C USB. Other than that, this product looks absolutely perfect.
we love the pen! we wanted to hit a great price point and we wanted to let people choose their color. students in particular definitely should get. 
Please be honest, do you actually use Windows Phones as your main devices?
Hello, I have a question about the Windows Appstore. I love Windows, but the appstore in the Surface is quiet small. I'm now planning to buy an iPad, because their Appstore is bigger. Currently, there are 585,000 apps in the Windows store and Windows Phone store combined. The Apple Appstore has more than 1,592,655 apps in their store.  What is, acourding you, the best idea to make the Windows store more populair? And how long will it take till the Apple Appstore and the Windows Store are the same size?   [Source 1](http://news.microsoft.com/bythenumbers/index.html)and [Source 2](http://www.pocketgamer.biz/metrics/app-store/app-count/)  (I don't like Android, so that's why I only compare the Apple and Windows stores) 
Hi Mr Groene,  Surface has always had a very distinct (and sexy) hardware design. What were your inspirations for the design (if any)?   With the Surface 2 launch, your team was very invested in custom covers for different tasks, do you see those covers coming back in the future?   Does the Surface team take interns? 
I have a feeling that they won't be able to answer this, but what does the Surface team think about the way that Windows 10 is stomping all over the tablet experience on their hardware?
yes it does! Connected Standby fiorst and then we do go to hibernate after 4 hours. 
Could I have one, please? (hey, can't blame me for asking, right?)  Also, will the Surface 3 have its own unique docking station?
This is quite exciting because today is my birthday and this AMA is on my birthday. I have two questions:  1. Is there a possibility that someone like me who has years of software development under my belt to work for Microsoft? The catch is that I have learned software development on my own without the aid of college.  2. Today marks a 24th anniversary that a Microsoft enthusiast (yours truly) was born. Humbly asking, how can ^oneself ^acquire ^an ^unaffordable ^SurfacePro3 ^device ^that ^can ^aid ^me ^in ^Windows8.1, ^WP8.1, ^and ^Windows10 ^touchscreen ^software ^development? If I'll never ask, I'll never know. 
[deleted]
Hey, I absolutely adore my SP2. It broke recently and I got an SP3 for free in exchange! It was better in every way, lighter, faster, thinnner, brighter, louder, apart from the digitiser.   Having used the Wacom digitiser the swap to the nTrig was unbearable. I ended up selling it (making a cool 300 profit!) and buying a SP2. I think if you'd never used the Wacom you wouldn't notice a difference, but having been exposed to how good a digitiser can be I was appalled at how bad the nTrig one was.  My question is therefore, is there any chance (please let there be a chance) you would go back to using Wacom digitisers, or do I need to stock up my lifetime's supply of SP2s now?  Loving the Surface's continued expansions, keep up the great work!
nothing new to announce there! sorry!
Why did you let me buy another laptop right before this came out? I thought we were close, guys. I could have used a heads up. Maybe next time. 
Hi,  I'm a software engineering student and I've just bought a Surface 3 to take notes and consume content. I will be using it lightly to perform some uni tasks, but not heavily  When I bought it, I was told that no student discount was available (via the chat). Can you confirm the status of this?  In terms of performance, what limits with an IDE could I stretch the top end Surface 3 to, and should I instead be looking at getting the Surface Pro 3 or the next gen. Surface?  I'm coming from OS X and an iPad: why should I beware of? I use Windows 7 daily at work as a developer but also in the cockpit when I fly.  Do you see a revolution or evolutionary change in the next 2 years of the Surface and Surface Pro?  The surface isn't just a cool device for me, it's something which can replace the need for me to have an iPad and a MacBook Pro, that is something I am very keen on. 
Have you ever considered altering the shape of the device? I understand that it's a minor issue but my wife and I both find it difficult to get a grasp of our Surface devices if they are laying screen side down ( I know, NOT recommended). I have actually scratched the screen on my Surface Pro 3 because I had to slide it off table in order to pick it up.
Please, I remember one of the Surface team members on the last AMA saying the SP3s power connector is Thunderbolt, but nothing ever came of it. 
Guys, I love everything that you've done so far. I absolutely adore my Surface Pro 3 and your team has done quite a bit to improve it over the past year.   I am sure that you've seen various posts about the color banding issue present on the SP3, does the S3 have this issue? Will it be resolved on both?   Also, are you doing anything to actively encourage software developers to take into account the insane DPI that the SP3 (and possibly the S3) has? The devices are beautiful, but third-party software can appear extremely tiny on the high density displays!
Can we expect a smartwatch from you guys soon? (And I mean a real smartwatch and not a fitness band ;P)  
Hi, great job on the surface 3 and surface pro 3. Why don't you guys give us a 16" full metal laptop for pro users - 16 GB ram, 4K resolution, all day long battery?
1) Are you working on next gen pen (better friction, better accuracy when pen is at the angle, etc...)? I love the pen but there's always room for improvement.  2) Surface Hub proved that Surface brand is not all about tablets. Is there any chance for other device categories in Surface family? 
Adapter now or adapter later I guess...
Are there thoughts on extending the power cord a bit?   It is a bit short right now for most areas. I tremble when i need to look for an outlet because the cable is so short.
[deleted]
I saw some great blogs for making music on Surface. Will there be some sound improvements for running something big like FL studio without lag? Or will there be an official tool for sound?
Nice, the Surface feedback app doesn't support RT.    http://apps.microsoft.com/windows/en-us/app/surface/a0ccf2f2-defa-45b9-8a81-510b819333ef  Supported processors x86, x64 System requirements      Surface Pro     Surface Pro 2     Surface Pro 3  
Thanks for that! I'd rather have a little bit more thickness than a single USB cum power port :P
[deleted]
Yes!  The micro-USB port charging port also handles USB data
Will the next Surface devices drop Mini Displayport in favor of USB C?
What is the one thing that you wanted to get into the Surface 3 that did not make it into the final product?
Thanks for doing this Surface team!!  A) How future proof is the Surface 3? Will it get obsolete as soon as newer tech comes out like in six months?  B) Surface 3 still uses a 3:2 ratio but is in the 10" range. Does that divert from design cues from SP3? C) Where can I get a Surface T shirt? D) Are you planning on a Surface Phone? or heck may be a Surface All in one?  Thanks
Yes, we have a docking station available at the same time of Surface.  It has GB Ethernet, 4 USB ports, mini display port and audio, storage for the pen and is styled similar to the docking station for Surface Pro 3
3) They already said to keep cost and weight down.
That is not a unique deal, that's the same deal. You misread the question.
as a parent of 3, I am proud to say I have no idea what that would feel like...  Windows has announced that there will be an update for 8.1, but want to set expectations that it definitely is not windows 10. there wont' be an upgrade path.
Will the next Surface devices go the Apple route and try to minimize the amount of available ports to allow for a thinner device?
If you are working on a desk, are there any scenarios where you prefer touching the screen rather than using a mouse? Which are they? What little examples/funny details do you have where you prefer touching with the finger?
[deleted]
1) How do you, and the rest of the Surface team feel about the death of Windows RT? Do you feel there were any advantages to it that you wish had gained traction or do you feel the switch to full windows is the right path for the Surface line?  2) How well will the Surface 3 run Civ 5?  Great work by the way. Hope to get a Surface 3 or SP4 to finally go paperless.
Ahhh maybe that's my problem... VPN
Will there be a trade-in program for those loyal fans with orphan devices (RT/Surface 2)? 
Why are the Surface and the keyboard and the pen all sold separately?  Would you consider a bundle (buy all three at a discount)? I was at MS Store yesterday and a potential customer was definitely disappointed to hear that the keyboard was another full-retail addition.
It didn't hurt the first time, so... May I have a Surface 3? 
Have you considered an a Surface with a discrete GPU, similar to the Razer Edge Pro? Maybe 'Xbox' branded?  Obviously it would be thicker and compromise battery life, but it would allow for a truly portable gaming machine.
For sure you can connect all the Bluetooth devices you mention above at the same time.  As for WiFi, no issues... People will get the same WiFi experience that Surface Pro 3 users are getting today.
As someone who loves the smaller 10.6" design of my Surface Pro 2, I'm glad that the smaller form factor is coming back.  I know that the Surface 3 is more of a midrange device, but is there any possibility of higher end hardware in a similar form factor?  I mean, if the Surface 3 had Core M (which admittedly isn't as high performance as an i5, but it's more the range I'm looking for), I'd probably preorder that immediately.  Even the newest highest-end Atom just isn't enough for my main device.
[deleted]
[deleted]
thank you! all of us in the room appreciate your congrats!  we are doing an unlocked LTE version. can't say where it will be available yet, but we hear you and in many markets we will have it available. stay tuned for more!
Just nice to hear you are aware of it. IT HURTS SO MUCH!
That's because it's not.
did you'll consider a minor broadwell refresh for the sp3, around dec 2014, while you wait for windows 10 i presume for the next surface pro?
Don't you think the `Surface 3` name is confusing for a device launched one year after another one called `Surface Pro 3`? :|
I'm really confused as to why you would not go the route of USB-C on the Surface 3. It just seems to be the most obvious thing to do here if you're using USB to charge the tablet. Will this come with the Surface Pro 4?? And will it become standard on all your future Surface products?  Also I've been wondering this since the original Surface Pro came out.......Will we ever see a Surface or Surface Pro with an AMD chip inside? Not to say that my SP3' i5 isn't great. It definitely is. However AMD is definitely in the lead when it comes to it's integrated graphics on their APUs.   I would love to see a low cost Surface 3 or Surface 4 ship with the option of having an AMD APU. I believe this would keep costs down, and get the Surface into the hands of more people. Seems like a win win with nothing to lose.   Thank you! And thanks for making an awesome tablet! 
When are we going to see the next Surface Event? I'm eagerly waiting for the next one.
I've used Miracast with my Belkin adapter and Sony bravia TV (in-built miracast) and it work pretty well for me. I use it everyday to stream netflix. I have to make sure I restart windows every 2-3 days otherwise the performance does degrade a little.
What are you going to do with model numbers when you release Surface Pro 4? It's gonna be inconsistent! 
Why does the $499 price require like $170 in extra accessories for real usability? I get it, entry level price attention, but it's disingenuous.   How about bundle the keyboard and pen for $79 or something?
Any reason in going with USB power connector? Please tell me magnetic power connector is still alive at least on Pro models.
Hi there, this is Ralf. The inspiration of our surfaces comes from the idea that the hardware should be a stage for software. It should blend into the experience while you use it. Many things we do is removing things to make the experience crisper, easier. What we then leave in the product we fanatically obsess about it and make it as great as we can. ...and yes we always have more ideas :) ....and ping me on the intern question.  cheers ralf
It's technically a PCI express slot if you look at device manager.
4K at 30Hz with Intel X7 Gen8 engine.  EDU - Thanks for feedback, on it.  
What happened to the "blade" concept? There was the music blade which never got released (had input lag which is really bad for music production), but I was excited for the possibility of programming specific blades, or gaming blades.   Also, I noticed the lack of power connectors in the blade interface, power cover dead? 
Will there ever be another ARM Surface?
If they have a Pro 4, sure
What is happening with Surface Blades?  https://youtu.be/R9UAxHgXYxw
Hi, is there any specific reason that surface range is not launched in India? If not, will it ever be available in India?  
When can we expects type C to superceed every other port, and when can we expect external GPU enclosures?
Hi there!Owner of a Pro 2 here :)Will you be releasing a Surface 4 along with the Pro 4? Is my Pro 2 keyboard compatible with newer models?Lastly, PLEASE upgrade whatever paint/coating you use on these devices. Mines looks like it's had a rough life when really it lives in my bag and on a desk, thanks! (and it makes them looks shabby and doesn't reflect their awesomeness)
I want to make this for tradition. Can I have one? :)
Will there be a purple type cover? If not, why did you get rid of it? It looked great!
they aren't orphans! they are great - my kids and my mom are still using them and love them. there will be an update from Windows for them and they will continue to work great.  we'll definitely think about trade-ins. we don't have plans right now. will also see what retailers are thinking - those are often done by the retailers themselves.  thanks!
Can I have an S3? I'll donate my S2 to the charity of your choice. 
So I've had a Surface Pro (1) since day one and I love it. I use it for school, work, and typing up this question. Knowing how much I love my SP1, why would I upgrade to an SP3 or an S3? (Besides just how awesome they are)
Hi guys, when the new feature to stream xbox one games to win10 comes out, will i reliably be able to steam to my SP3 i5 256 without throttling issues?
It does if I drop kick it through the front door of the Microsoft Store :)
[deleted]
Apart from price, why should I buy surface pro 3 instead of cintiq companion 2?  Edit: forget it, I thought this was Surface pro 3, why in the hell would windows make tablets with the same name?
[deleted]
Love the Surface family, Surface 3 is a beautiful product, love it. When the Surface Pro 4 will be introduced ? :)
It sure helps to have software development in your education, but we are huge believers in getting stuff done -- If you are a great software developer, you are a great software developer, regardless of your educational background. 
Does the Surface 3 have a TPM?
Hi guys! When will Microsoft promote its devices outside USA? Here in Romania only IT enthusiasts have heard of Surface tablets. I think a chain of Microsoft Stores in Europe would major improve the awareness and sales of Microsoft products.
I have a Windows 8 Pro license to spare. Would it be possible to install it on a consumer version of Surface 3 and thereby make the Surface 3 a business version, or is there any hardware difference between the consumer and business versions? 
the surface 3 4gb/128gb model (500) is 50 cheaper than the SP3 64gb/4gb (550) in the UK, at this price point it makes no sense to buy the S3. How did you come to this price point?  I'm looking at upgrading my SP1.
How many members of the team are replying to these comments/questions on a Surface 3? ;)
[deleted]
Guys, you are making an AMA, but come on. You are not giving clear answers. This is more like Dont AMA :) Can you give some solid answers for Turkey and Surface?
Will there but future touch covers with music controls etc, like what was released for the Surface 1 &amp; 2, that fit the form factor of the Surface 3 and the Pro 3? What about other covers for other uses? 
Are there any plans to expand Surface series to more markets? Specifically India?
The most difficult part is always to care about every detail and not let even the slightest, smallest thing slide. We do this as a team. It can only be done when all people work together. This the hardest and the most fun part of the job. We have a great team.
Thank you very much ! :)
I think you will find awesome benefits  as you learn to use Windows 10.  I am using it day in and day out, and I have found the product increases my effectiveness, and I am now much more fluid with it.  Granted, I use a different test device on a daily basis as we need to continuously test every aspect of the product, but I will tell you it has felt great to use Windows 10 on Surface.
Connected Standby for 4 hours and then hibernating is great for battery life and all, but with these devices supposedly supporting an Alarm clock app, is 4 hours really enough?  Or, for example, with Skype?  I mean, isn't part of the draw of Connected Standby that I should be able to get my calls ALL the time?
Can confirm, have done this
Hi there!   Do you guys have plans to offer more docking solutions for the current and future lines of Surface? Some ideas:  * Surface Pro 3 "multimonitor dock". Instead of relying on just DP 1.2 daisychaining, maybe include some kind of circuitry that breaks it out to two DP of some type. In our current work environment, we have some really nice HP IPS monitors but they do not offer passthru. We're currently hooking them up to 1 monitor, or are attaching them to DisplayLink docks and double-docking them for more monitors.  * Admin dock. Include a serial port, maybe a couple more USB ports, extra ethernet port and a solid area for the Surface to stand on without a kickstand.   Also, I love my Surface Pro 1. A lot. My fiancee's was a day 1 purchase and mine was about a week after that. I had an unfortunate   midnight snack event involving a hidden kitten that ended up with me breaking my kickstand. It is currently being held together with gaffer's tape. http://1drv.ms/1NMVGvW  I heard you guys have a lot of prototype models and such. Do you have an extra kickstand anywhere that I can have or buy? I can't justify a full machine yet when this one is still rocking. &gt;_&gt;
Hey this is StevieB.. in the earlier versions of Surface we wanted to highlight the horizontal interaction mode of new Windows. Hence the 16:9. As Pen become more predominate and we saw huge interest and uptake with the pen, portrait mode became just as important. So like the Pro3 we really focused on the screen in surface 3.. and how its form really would amplify its function. We wanted something even more compact than pro3 but yet but still very productive and functional. Something that would enable both landscape in keyboard mode and portrait in tablet and pen mode. So that is why we moved to the 3:2 aspect ratio in the Surface line, following to what we did with the Surface Pro line. If you map out the aspect ratio all the digital content of the world, books, movies, productivity apps, digital pictures, magazines, and games, then the 3:2 aspect ratio ends up being the perfect balance of maximizing the use of your screen real estate.. Maximizing the use of the screen area is critical for creating a compact, mobile, yet functionally effective device. We wanted a form that people were already comfortable with, a book, so the new screen in Surface 3 is exactly 9x6 inches. 9x6 (Octavo paper size) is one of the most common modern book formats (not to mention digital photos). So for student putting pen to screen will feel more natural viewing digital content will fit. The new screen while compact shows 20% more content on screen than previous surface lineawesome right!! Off course the screen is just as beautiful as pro 3, being in plane switching, really high contrast, 100%SRGB, and individually calibrated on the line. I hope you love the screen and the new formfactor the display team really worked hard on it. 
Thanks guys! I will stay tuned for it and hopefully I can buy one in the US somehow.  And here's hoping we hear about a Surface phone soon too! :) 
could i use [this](http://www.ebay.com/itm/Miracast-Wifi-Display-TV-Dongle-Receiver-1080P-HDMI-Wireless-IPUSH-AirPlay-DLNA-/351086286918?pt=LH_DefaultDomain_0&amp;hash=item51be5f9846) to stream miracast from my sp3 to tv? also would i be able to browse while my gf watches netflix or can it only stream what is on my screen at the time?
yes, the LTE versions have a GPS chip. 
Well it was more of a hint I guess: [Source](http://www.neowin.net/news/microsoft-hints-at-thunderbolt-connector-in-surface-pro-3)
I'm a hardcore Mac user up until and first I want to say, Microsoft overall, has been kicking butt recently, especially on the device front.  The Microsoft Band made a good impression and has a lot of potential, as does HoloLens.  The Surface Pro 3, while it doesn't fit my situational needs as a main computer, is a very nice device and the new Surface 3 will definitely be my new tablet once I decide whether I can live without LTE or not.    Kudos.  The one factor that has started to make me more device agnostic are cloud services.  How do you see the Surface line evolving as more and more CPU intensive applications such as Photoshop, Visual Studio, and Office are offloaded to the cloud?
Hi. Are you planning to release Surface 3 and Surface Pro 3 in other regions? 
How does the battery life compare to the Surface 2 and given the Surface 3 has a microUSB port will it support remote chargers?
Seriously, a Galaxy Note -like Surface Phone including an N-trig pen would be great.
Thanks for the response.   Will the Power Cover for the Surface Pro 2 work with the Surface 3? I assume the device is the same size (physically) as the SP2?
Your device is going to continue to work and will receive a small update. You aren't getting abandoned; you, like a lot of us, just have a device that is about a year and a half old. It will still work fine in 3 years from now.
USB Data bandwidth is only one piece of the picture. Power and other things vary pretty significantly. It's not just a rearrangement of pins so it definitely requires hardware support beyond soldering on a different connector. And this Cherry Trail architecture (or specific SoC, I'm not sure) definitely only supports 3.0 as max. See Intel: http://ark.intel.com/products/85475/Intel-Atom-x7-Z8700-Processor-2M-Cache-up-to-2_40-GHz
ok, lots here!  couple things we'd say: 1. you'll be in great shape developing on Surface 3. IDE will work great. if you're doing big compiles or anything like that or have lots of plug-ins etc then you should go with Surface Pro 3. 2. THANK YOU FOR ASKING about coming from OSX/iPad. we made this for you! http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/switch/mac-surface  3. we're going to keep pushing the envelope. we definitely don 't look at the next two years and say "I think we've pretty much nailed this. let's just iterate and be evolutionary." :-)
The more you use Windows 10, the more you will feel how integrated the experience is with Surface.  You will see it continuously coming to life in our products.  I am pretty pumped about it actually, I think as you use it, you will be too.   
Will we be able to trade in older Surfaces for newer models at the Microsoft Store?
Do you have plans to make the Surface Pro bigger than 12"? We developers would surely prefer a larger screen with a better battery and more memory!
i agree. i hate it when it hibernates!
Why did you choose to use the 3 fixed angles for the kickstand of the Surface 3 in comparison to the unfixed kickstand of the Surface Pro 3?
To make the device slightly thinner.
This, the SP3 dock was JUST the power connector, so what they ment was the power connector had thunderbolt like capabilities. Which is fancy, but proprietary tech will never go anywhere. and thunderbolt wasn't even proprietary and it still went nowhere.
We have taken the learnings from the Pro3 and applied them to the Surface 3. It has the same wifi/bt chip and the same driver, so all the work we did on the Pro3 directly applies to the Surface 3, on day 1.   
I use it every day too and love it. as someone who's been using early builds of Windows since before XP, I can also tell you that the experience is going to keep getting better regularly. 
Why do you prefer 4:3 to 3:2? The current aspect ratio seems like a good compromise between squarer portrait and wider landscape. 
When is Halo: Spartan Strike's release date for the Windows Store?
Awesome, I'd likely be doing compiling and much larger stuff like that at my desk, with a cup of coffee; great website, cheers!
Does the Surface 3 have the thermal threshold for CPU cutoff like the SP3? I enjoy playing Dota 2 for a couple of hours and this was the one thing I did not want happening, at the already low settings required to play it.
How powerfull was the new Intel x7? Was it worth to compete with other $499-range tablets with i3/i5?
You should at least allow surface 3 to be sold online via amazon/ebay/flipkart in India. That would help. Wouldn't it?
Yes.
Why is LTE required for GPS?
This was a key decision for Surface 3 to keep the product affordable (and thin and light).  We know from research the most important angles from Surface 2 and Surface Pro 2, and then we added the 3rd most shallow angle based on feedback from Surface Pro 3.  Overall, keeping price as a priority while giving large range of angles was the goal.  
[deleted]
I have a surface RT and I got my 7 year old god daughter a surface rt 2 a while back. It must be my luck because when I buy something related to a Microsoft product, it quickly dies. I bought a HTC HD2 and it was EOLd' shortly after. understandable, that it wouldn't run windows phone 7. Had a Zune HD. loved it. would've loved to replace it with a Zune HD 2. Had a Lumia 900. that became junk before it could get its first scratch. Understandable, Windows Phone 7 has a CE Kernel, Windows Phone 7 has a NT Kernel. It's hard enough getting an update via the carriers as gate keepers. But that brings me back to My and my god daughters surfaces. What keeps them from getting ANY kind of meaningfull update? Why can't Surface RT devices get Windows 10 Mobile? Why considering my above track record should I invest any money in another Surface or a Microsoft Band or Hololens? 
[deleted]
Yes. x86 machine, so apps will run. Best reference point is PC Mark 8 Creative Benchmark which includes video editing performance that is 85% of SP3 i3.
My colleague and I were arguing over whether Microsoft should be considered a software company, or a hardware company. What do you think? Or does mobile first, cloud first combine them both and make them irrelevant?
Hello Surface team, I am a big fan of your work! (still rocking a surface pro 2)  Anyways will the new shiny Microsoft logo on the back of the surface 3 be used in future microsoft devices? Will it ever glow?      
One of the advantages of RT was that it was very reliable. My Surface 2 works better that my HP Laptop. Will Surface 3 hardware and processor be able to run Windows 8.1 and 10 with the same level of reliability?
Why was the choice made to go with the atom x7 cpu vs an intel core m cpu? Also huge fan of the surface and surface pro lines. I will be getting a surface pro 4 when it is released.
Hey guys, amazing new product you have put together!  I was wondering whether the Surface 3 would be compatible with previous type covers?  Thanks for doing this AmA!
I know that internal teams at Microsoft couldn't publicly state otherwise anyway...  But still, this is what scares me most, that nobody is even admitting that there is a problem with Windows 10 tablet mode.  Seriously, I hope internal communication is different on this point.
Can you elaborate on what "Windows as a Service" means?
YES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Any reason why Surface range is not launched in India? I am using Surface pro and now sp3.  I love it and lot of my friends want to buy it.  But it is sad that msft has ignored this market for such a long time.   
Cutting edge.  We built this product to last, and feel amazing about its performance, battery life, usability, etc.  Every element of the design is meant to incorporate 'future proofing'.  We are super clear our customers expect it from us, and we work hard to be sure you are good with it.  3:2 ratio, this is the future.  Once you put this product in your hands you feel the benefits of Windows scaling to 3:2, you will also love the weight distribution on the device as you hold it in portrait to use it to write and read.
I guess the answer is No. Otherwise, they would have probably answered this already.
When will you release your product in middle east countries????
This is what really happened to Windows 9, right??? ;-)
Even a "We'll see" would be sufficient. 
USB power to DVD and USB hard drives. While the SP3 might be to spec, it doesnt power peripherals very well. The new Surface 3 is more of a consumer device than the SP3 and there will be lots more people wanting to use these external peripherals. What should we expect?
Nope. The hardware is not different between them.
is this "integrated experience" already there in the public builds? Honestly I can't feel it right now.
It has a Firmware TPM as part of the SOC. 
yes, previous covers work with Surface 3. the size is a little different, though with the new 3:2 aspect ratio, so if you use your Type cover 2 it just won't cover the whole screen. 
[deleted]
Since I've seen you do it before.  Can I have a Surface Pro 3 Please?  As for my second question.  How do you feel Cortana's integration to windows 10 plays in with Surface Pro 3?  Do you find that cortana will benefit Desktop users or mobile more?  I find it hard to use or want to use voice search in an office environment but when I'm home it seams to work well.  What are your experiences with Cortana?
I am affiliated with a University charter school that is STEM focused which is interested in possibly acquiring Surface 3 for a lot of our students.  Who would be the best person at Microsoft for us to contact to about this?
Have you leveraged anything you've learned from Nokia in your design, manufacturing, or generally how you build Surface products?  And have you put any know-how back into Nokia for some sort of Surface Phone concept?
Maybe, or maybe not. It could also mean that it will be announced with the next revision of the pro line. But we can speculate all day, and we still won't get an answer today most likely.
Hi, thanks for doing this, I just have one question, why have you not created a surface based on AMD CPU's? I mean surely you could create a great product using AMD's Puma/Bema CPU's.  Thank you.
Wouldn't it be more fair to compare the S3 to the new MacBook as opposed to the iPad for price point? There were recent posts about the new MacBook being equivalent to the 2011 MacBook Air's. Can you compare the quad core chip in the S3 to a lower end i3?
Thanks.... we are super excited about Surface 3!  Yes, the previous type covers are functionally compatible.  Obviously the size is different so the cover might not align perfectly.  
2 questions: 1. Is there ever going to be a Surface Mini? I love how my Surface Pro 3 is great for note taking, how I can press the button on the pen and start taking notes. I've even used the feature in a few YouTube videos. I would love a device that could do the same but is more handheld. This was rumored around the time of Surface Pro 3 but the project was scrapped. Is there any future for it?  2. Does Microsoft realize that the way OneDrive syncs in Windows 10 is a dealbreaker for many users? I really want to upgrade to Windows 10, but I just won't be able to until placeholders make a return.
Nothing.
Will Pro4 support video output to 4K &gt;30Hz monitors ?
USB-C: This is the fastest/most powerful Cherry Trail Atom processor currently available and it doesn't support USB3.1. Arguably I think you can technically have a Type-C connector that only supports 3.0 and I don't know exactly what that looks like but with this CPU platform, 3.1 just isn't a possibility yet: http://ark.intel.com/products/85475/Intel-Atom-x7-Z8700-Processor-2M-Cache-up-to-2_40-GHz
Both devices get a full 10hrs of video playback. Surface 3's microUSB give more access to chargers and will at least maintain power from remote battery packs
Two questions:   How will you guys fix the slow jitter problem when drawing slow strokes with the pen? It's a big problem for artists who like to draw slowly and accurately. It's a big, well-documented problem with the Surface Pro 3, and having tested the new Surface 3 in-stores, the Surface 3 suffers from the same problems, as shown in this [video I took](http://www.reddit.com/r/Surface/comments/3154f8/user_video_of_surface_3_pen_in_action_overall/)   Will the next Surface Pro have a locking kickstand? One frequent problem I encounter when drawing on a Surface Pro 3 is than when I rest my palm on the screen it slowly alters the angle.
[deleted]
Why does the Surface 3 use a three position kickstand instead of the variable position version in the Surface Pro 3?
It wont be required, just that their bundled together on the same chip, I suspect, so they come together.  I suspect their using one of the new Intel modems
How did you decide on the three positions of the kickstand? Just trial and error? Or did you have a focus group :-)
Hey this is StevieB, if I understand your question correctly what you are seeing is a linearization issue.. and has nothing to do with the pressure  sensor. This artifact likely happens only when you draw really slow and across the diagonal. Most touch sensors are oriented as a grid, when you draw across the diagonal the touch controller has to interpolate position of the pen and linearize its path. As for active capacitive digitizer we do the best out there, but we can do better. We do so by boosting the signal from the Pen and the bettering the controller Surface 3 takes a step in that direction. Other pen technologies have other artifacts that have their own issues.. every technique has a compromise.. Pen is really important to us, and our best people are really focused on making and maintaining it to be awesome and the most realistic digital pen experience in any tablet. 
Will you trade me my iPad Mini for one? My plan was to sell it and buy a surface, but this way, you'd get to brag that people are begging to get rid of their apple products for a windows machine. 
Why 10.8" screen when it can't have free Office? Will that 0.7" really bring some value comparing to some Lenovo that will surely come in 10.1" with free Office?
One question - any plans to bring Surface to Poland? It's 40M country and you have huge fan base here.
They are both great options - and we definitely see that there are trade offs and actually like a lot that people are picking what's best for them versus us trying to essentially dictate through price. Surface Pro 3 i3/64 has the bigger screen and is a little faster than the Surface 3. Surface 3 is thinner and lighter, and some people really do prefer the size because it's more mobile/fits in bag easier. but feel good that either is a great choice.  And thanks for being a Surface Pro 1 user!
When is Surface Pro 4 coming?
-Awkward-
I bought the Surface 2 right when it came out. I know nobody liked them, but I did. It's a great companion Tablet it travelled with me everywhere. I guess you won't say anything about the RT Situation... So I am really excited about the Surface 3 announcement, it seems the perfect fit, companion device with real horse power and note taking (gota love that).  What is the message for all the Surface 2 owners out there? It feels like no one is interested, no accessories are well compatible, we believed in you and you ditched us. What do you have to say to convince all of us to move upwards? Thx 
we don't have plans for more regions right now. sorry!
Considering most of us that go to Build already have a Surface Pro 3 a Surface 3 wouldn't really make sense this year. Plus I don't think it would handle development (totally different market). Early pre-order for HoloLens or a Phone seems more reasonable.
There are separate docks for Surface 3 and Surface Pro 3. Did you ever consider (or are you considering) a one-size-fits-all Surfaces dock? I think it would be great if the dock would just accept any Surface.
Thanks for answering my previous question! Does Microsoft do Year 11 internships in the UK? Thanks
Can you give me one?  I still have the Surface RT and this would obviously be an upgrade.
Will the Surface 3 support two 1440p displays via daisy-chained DisplayPort connections? My i5 SP3 handles this great but don't know if this would work with the S3.  P.S. Thanks for answering all of our questions. Your team is pretty awesome!
I love the Surface 3 line... Are there plans to release a Courier-like device? Also, does your team collaborate with anyone on future Windows Phone devices?
Hello Panos and the Surface team,   We heard a lot about Windows 10 and new features like Continuum for hybrid devices like Surface Pro 3.   I installed Windows 10 Tech Preview on my Surface Pro 3 (Dual boot of course) to try these new features. While it seems to be better than before in Desktop mode, it feels like a downgrade in Tablet mode. And since there is almost no improvement for tablet mode in recent builds, I'm really concerned about it.   I wanted to ask, if you are aware of this issues? And are you co-operating with Windows team to create a great tablet experience for Windows 10?   Thank you :)    &gt; Side note: Here are some of my concerns. &gt; &gt; * Left and right charm bars were an easy to reach way to switch between apps, multitask, access settings and other things. But in Windows 10, after swiping from left, I have to tap on one of big rectangles in the middle of screen. Also, Action center is a great feature, but now settings and print are harder to reach (swipe from top) &gt; &gt;* Multitasking was easier, I could just pull an app from left and put it on the side. Now it's worse; and also I can't open more than two apps. In Windows 8 I was able to run 3 apps side by side. &gt; &gt;* Horizontal start screen was easier to use than new vertical layout.  
Thanks for that. So for those afflicted customers w/SP3's, there really is no "fix" since it is hardware related, correct?
[deleted]
We chose to put the 3-position hinges in Surface 3 in order to optimize size and cost of the device.  In addition, the 3-position hinges allow the user to flick open the kickstand more easily to the pre-set angles enabling quick operation for on-the go use.  
They said just 30Hz.
As a product maker one always has to finalize the list of things that will be in the product, otherwise we would never ship. Technology is always progressing and we always wish we could have time for this next feature. The good news is that we will always innovate as relentless as possible and create the fittest devices we can make at this point. And the future is long :) With Surface 3 you will find that we created a collection of powerful and beautiful features that creates a great experience. Designing great products is always a balance. It is as important to remove as it is to add features. ...so to answer your question, I think Surface 3 has all we wanted it to be. 
I remember around the time of Surface 2, or between Surface RT and Surface 2, Microsoft introduced a Music Cover. It was like the touch cover but more designed for DJs and such. I found this to be very exciting because it opened the door for different types of keyboards that were specialized for different types of professions. It seemed to be a really innovative approach. The Music Cover now seems to be gone and it seems like we're sticking with the Type Cover. Any chance of some new kinds of innovative Surface covers?
Thanks for doing this AMA. Is this surface capable of running visual studio 2013 smoothly and developing asp.net applications? 
I'm a hardcore Mac user up until and first I want to say, Microsoft overall, has been kicking butt recently, especially on the device front.  The Microsoft Band made a good impression and has a lot of potential, as does HoloLens.  The Surface Pro 3, while it doesn't fit my situational needs as a main computer, is a very nice device and the new Surface 3 will definitely be my new tablet once I decide whether I can live without LTE or not.    Kudos.  The one factor that has started to make me more device agnostic are cloud services.  How do you see the Surface line evolving as more and more CPU intensive applications such as Photoshop, Visual Studio, and Office are offloaded to the cloud?
 I like using touch when reading PDFs, browsing a long document, reading Reddit .. I find it direct and convenient depending on my posture. Also I find it convenient to use touch when I want to hit a dialog box button. The beauty about what we are doing in Surface is building a computer that is able to give the user the right tool for the right job. It allows the user to seamlessly switch between touch, keyboard, mouse, and pen. 
can I get a surface 3?
hey StevieB, Thank you for your reply. I look forward to taking a look at the new display! 
Ice. Cold.
It is all dependent on me being able to pick out the right shirt.  
Have you ever considered having a different design to the surface line than the current one? Like in your early mockups and prototypes etc.?  Can you share what inspired you to create S3 considering that the SP3 is selling well? wouldn't S3 eat some of SP3 sales? How do you plan to sell the Surface line globally? Its still not available in a lot of places like India?  Do you think developing markets are the key to tablet growth in general not specific to Surface lineup?
Did Panos or Satya ever ride a new Surface like a skateboard? Or was Sinofsky the last one who dared? :-) http://www.cnet.com/news/windows-chief-rides-surface-like-a-skateboard-literally/
As the owner of a Surface RT, does the Surface 3 have the same satisfying click sound when opening/closing the kickstand?  It's definitely not a dealbreaker if it doesn't, but... man that sound is just so satisfying for some reason.
For virtualization recommendation is SP3. This is based on available memory &amp; 8GB SKU.
we think lots of people are going to pick a surface 3 versus an ipad. the opening price points (for the regular ipad, not the mini) are very similar, but with a Surface you get 64GB of storage and can use it as a tablet and a laptop. 
Go talk to ScottGu ;)
Easy. Pick one that matches with your Surface Cover :)
The key to Surface 3 was to give great performance, but to also keep the device thin and light.  We benefit from this latest quad core processor from Intel in a couple ways:  First, we get great performance with a new burst mode feature where the chip will run up to 2.4GHz.  However, when performance is not needed, it throttles down to 1.6GHz saving power so we can keep the battery as small as possible (keeping the devices as thin and light as possible.   
[deleted]
How would you say the Surface 3 holds up to Photoshop and do you still run the Wacom tech inside for those of us who want to do some drawing? I'm on the fence. 
Hey guys.First off, the device looks awesome. You've really created something special.My question is, are there plans to introduce the device to more markets after the initial 28?I live in South Africa, and everytime a new Surface is created, I wait and hope that the device will finally reach our shores. Even though iPhone is the aspirational product in the phone category (although I prefer my Windows Phone ), Microsoft still dominates the laptop and desktop market. And I would rather own a Surface before settling for a MacBook Air.
Why did you release the Surface 3 now, instead of releasing it alongside Windows 10?
Thanks for answering!
Cool. Whats the exactly command to do this? Thanks
If I ask a friend from US to send me a Surface, would you keep it under warranty in Turkey? In the end, you are selling a lot of things here but the Surface.
Can you please make Pro4 be USB charge-able too ?   BTW, Big fan of Pro2 here. I personally hated the Pro3 because it was such a compromise. Its a great piece of engineering no doubt, but it was too big to be a tablet and too unstable (on lap) to be a laptop. Pro2 was great as a tablet, a bit heavy maybe, but hey I'm a "power" user.  I just want to congratulate you on Surface 3. I believe you've hit the sweet spot both in functionality and price. Its a great tablet and an affordable laptop.  Best of luck for Pro4. 
Why don't Surface devices just come with a basic black touch cover? They can't cost that much to just give away &amp; it would shut the tech press up with their now 1 complaint about the surface? people would still buy their choice of color touch cover, type covers &amp; power covers (which should be brought back for the surface &amp; surface pro)
Hey - The Surface 3 does not support daisy chaining monitors over DisplayPort. The Pro line is great for folks who need this.
Panos shreds!
You should ask Phil Spencer for advice, he always pick the right shirts http://cdn.bleedingcool.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/286482-h1.jpg
TL;DR: "Lrn2W10 cuz it works fine for me"
No mystery, we are always working on different products and we will not stop being relentless about it... I think we both know that we can't talk about what and when :-)
How is there not a Surface TV commercial that mocks iPad users using their fingers for painting or sketching?  I'll write it for you:  iPad user drawing giant messy picture with their fingers.  Surface user says "Finger painting, huh... cute" and proceeds to use the Pen to do incredible and detailed work. 
[deleted]
Gotcha, makes sense. Does the surface team have any Computer Science interns or accept their resumes? It is my dream job to work for microsoft
Hello there Panos and the rest of the Surface team!Nice job with the Surface 3!Since last year's AMA event,i have purchased an i7 Surface Pro 3 and it is simply amazing,so I will be waiting for a Surface Pro 4 to replace it.When are you going to come to Cyprus for a visit Panos?As for Surface 3,why did you remove the magnetic charging port from it?I hope that was because of the cost as I would want it in the next Pro version of Surface since you have nailed it with Surface Pro 3's magnetic charging port!Gongratulations to the whole team again!Keep up the good work!I love the whole secrecy thing!When there aren't any leaks till the product's announcement,i truly love it!
Lack of a hinge prevents it and all the surface products from being an effective laptop. SP2 owner here, can confirm that the SP3 was a non-upgrade due to a lack of a power cover. Using the Pros on actual laps is a cracked screen waiting to happen because of how tenuous the surface and type cover balances.
No mystery, we are always working on different products and we will not stop being relentless about it... I think we both know that we can't talk about what and when :-)
we're DMing you - definitely would love to chat. this is a GREAT product for all students, but STEM in particular. I was a math major and would have LOVED to have been able to take my notes with a pen on a Surface. 
Any reason why Microsoft refuses to divulge units sold of Surfaces to date?
Will there be an LTE model compatible with AT&amp;T in the US?
In terms of usability the S3 is closer to the new MacBook. So I'm interested to see the performance difference between the two of them. Full Windows, Office and under $500
I use the Surface Pro 3, I just want to say that this tablet is really great. Why aren't you guys using the design of the Surface Pro 3 and Surface 3 on your phones? Also is there a Core M or fanless Pro model in the works?
Looks like your question got answered here: http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/31c0tu/we_are_panos_panay_and_the_surface_team_at/cq078ro
[deleted]
i'm here to learn about this too. I bought it as an artist and on the pro 3 it is very hard to do anything other than quick sketching with any quality. I need to know if this can be fixed or I will have to return it and go with the WACOM  for art. please tell us you can fix this, guys. I want to believe in this machine!
Do you have any new product announcements for us?
When do you plan to bring the Surface to India?
You can buy more stuff to make it a real computer!
In windows 8.1 one of my most used features is the charms bar screen brightness slider.   Will you make a similar slider in win 10? Currently you need to open the settings app.  &lt;3 my pro 3! Thanks!
Surface 3 and Surface Pro 3 are both amazing for making music. As we announced on Tuesday, an incredibly app called StaffPad that was written for use with the Surface pen. It launched in the Windows Store on Tuesday. You can check it out here. http://blog.staffpad.net/ or here http://apps.microsoft.com/windows/en-us/app/staffpad/ce714f58-1113-4c30-a9a3-f14a0fb5d7ed
Have you considered making the Windows button a mechanical kind? It would make the iPad user feel more at home with a Surface pc.
Why didn't you do a full launch reveal with all the bells, whistles, press and what not?  I have to admit I like it that way, it's first for the enthusiast and then on availability for the masses.
Will there ever be a way of turning in my Surface Pro 3 when the next iteration of the Surface Pro comes out to get a discount? 
Is Surface Pro is a complete replacement of my laptop? I want the VM's running most of the time, and Visual Studio, Sql Server too. Will it be capable of doing that as regular laptop for leads and developers? And I am planning to buy one if it is, and better to go for Surface Pro 3 or want me to wait till Surface Pro 4?
What was the coolest idea you had for the Surface that just didn't work out?
any idea if the surface will ever come with a matte screen? It seems like the perfect size for me to drag out to my deck, but short of putting a third party screen protector it seems like I'd be staring at a reflection of myself when using it. 
[deleted]
Thanks for being and fan and for the feedback! I'm planning to come this summer with the whole family - looking forward to it! 
we definitely think the pen is a really valuable way to use Surface and we're proud of what people can do with it.  RE the commercial idea, we definitely wouldn't do one mocking ipad users per se. ipads are of course good for some people and we don't think that we're making the one product for absolutely everyone. but if people are looking for somethign that's a great tablet and can be used as a laptop - or want to be able to do really great art on the go - Surface is definitely fantastic for them! 
Yes!!
Peter... first off, we are close.. my favorite people on the planet are named Peter..   Tell you what, return your laptop immediately and grab a Surface 3, then tweet me and let me know you did...
as i recall the Ntrig was chosen for the SP3 in part because it allowed the display to be some mm's thinner than with the wacom tech. 
What will Microsoft do to seriously improve the Modern app situation? Right now the lack of a decent podcasting app is a dealbreaker for me to buy a Windows tablet.
Absolutely! On Surface 3 we defined the sound before we engineered the parts. The sound is created by the materials of the foot snapping onto the magnesium. The hinge snaps the kickstand to the Surface body and imbedded magnets hold it perfectly flat. .... which gives it the perfect sound. 
not saying anything more today other than that we will be available working with T-Mobile and Verizon. we're excited about that. we will have more news later...
What are your thoughts on the points raised [here](http://www.techradar.com/news/mobile-computing/laptops/why-microsoft-got-everything-wrong-with-the-surface-3-1290085) ?  I think they are all very valid points 
translation: great idea, open dat wallet.
Hi Panos and team!  Really big fan of the design of the Surface line.  Really inspirational to me as a electrical engineering student.  What changes/optimizations regarding the physical design of the tablet did you guys make with the Surface 3 and what changes/features would you like to have in future models? Additionally, does the Surface team have an internship program?  It is my literal dream job.  Thanks so much for doing this AMA!
Hi sitting here in Germany with my sp3 pro and there would be one very nice feature for me in the university to make a type cover version with integrated remote connection possibility so i could use key shortcuts while using one note ? so i could draw lines faster because it takes way to much time to do this by clicking from full screen to normal view and then go back  and a option in the surface app to limit the power consumption of the cpu? i made this with a bat file because in some cases it is required to be silent   
Yes we do thermally throttle on S3. DOTA2 not specifically tested. We did test Civ5 and with 4G SKU at 25+ FPS. Another reference point is 3D Mark Cloud Gate shows S3 at ~70% performance of SP3 i3.
[deleted]
really simple answer: it was ready and is great for students in particular. lots are looking at what to get now. the good news is that it's a free upgrade to Windows 10 so everyone that buys Surface 3 before then will still end up there.
our team is a little to humble to brag...  so go with your original plan!
but it's too expansive in europe right now :(
With neither the Surface Pro 3 nor the Surface 3 having touch covers, should we expect they are being discontinued?  Is there anything you can tell us about ideas you've had for new covers?  How about a Type cover where each of the physical keys has a touch sensor built into them? Then you perform gestures on top of the physical keys, e.g., pinch to zoom and the new gestures from Windows 10.
I'm happy user of a Pro3, I'm also a pessimist and anticipating the day I drop my machine and crack the screen. What will be the best way of repairing such a machine? Videos of people opening and repairing Surfaces reveal a daunting process. 
We've seen external GPU dock solutions from Alienware and MSI. Are you guys planning on a similar thing for Surface 4/Pro 4?
[deleted]
@SurfaceTeam When will you launch S3 and SP3 in India ? I am in need of SP3, but due to unavailability of its support here, facing difficulty in getting it.    
Thanks for the comments.  They are appreciated.  I think Surface Pro 3 does a pretty good balancing CPU intensive applications and cloud based opportunities.  I think this is a great trend and we will keep on top of it.
Some say, by using a fan you can increase Surface benchmark over 40%. Is that true? If so, do you think of adding something like a fan on dock?
I definitely like the 3:2 on the SP3 I have but I just prefer the 4:3 on my iPad.  It seems better for viewing large documents and pdf files.  I know it's entirely subjective though.
Wouldn't creating a laptop kind if shoot them in the foot? Their tagline is that this tablet can replace your laptop. To say that you also need a laptop would undermine their entire marketing scheme.
Possible Timemtable on this?
What is the stance on Surface 3 for enterprise use? Can it domain join? TPM? Or is SP3 still the device for the enterprise scenario?
yeah, it was a type cover for DJs'. I was all excited for that and it became vaporware. Again, What's up with Microsoft and not really following thru. I'm beginning to think Microsoft has commit issues. 
I'm pretty sure the Pro 4 will use **[Windows Hello](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1AsoSnOmhvU)**
Power Cover with a solid hinge please? Is a Power Cover accessory in the pipeline? If the blade took a sim card a the hinge could serve as an antennae and possibly allow it the weight/stability to serve as an actual laptop. These would sell like hotcakes and the extra functionality would certainly justify being sold separately. This would make the Surface/Pro the perfect companion for international business travelers. I'd rather buy a pay-as-you-go sim than hop on to sketchy wifi hotspots.  Given the N-Trig concession and lack of power cover, I can't justify upgrading from SP2.
Why do you guys keep using some kind of cloth for the type cover? It's not that easy to clean and picks up dust easily. Would you consider another material for the next iteration of type cover?
So where's the gold Surface? And the pink one for my wife?
Regarding the pen, one of the main things that i consider important in any writing instrument is the friction while writing, needs to have just the right amount.  Considering that the Surface pen glides on glass, I'm guessing handwriting is going to pretty terrible (I'm from India, and I haven't tried out the pen or the surface for that matter). Do you guys take this into account during product dev?
 Did Microsoft buy N-Trig?  
Confession: Peter Venkman is Bill Murray in Ghostbusters. Also, I'll try!   http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/it/7/78/Peter_Venkman.jpg 
Are there plans to release a new Surface when Windows 10 goes RTM? I'm putting off upgrading from my first generation Surface Pro until Windows 10 has released to ensure they're made for each other.
haha worth a shot and will do!   I tried out a stylus with my ipad and it didn't hold a candle to your drawing capabilities. I'm super stoked to get one and start messing around. Thanks! 
I'm Surface Pro and Surface Pro 2 user. Unfortunately i couldn't buy them officially in Turkey. I play games alot. Surface Pro 3 has throttling problems. Will Surface Pro 4 perform better in games?
Photoshop - Given variety of content and scenarios, best answer is relative to SP3 i3. For PC Mark 8 Creative Tests S3 performance is 80% of SP3 i3.  Pen - S3 and SP3 use Ntrig technology.
[deleted]
yeah, don't do that.   don't just be a pessimist, though... be an active pessimist! get the warranty next time and/or get a protective case. that's what we're doing on the NFL sidelines.
It has fw TPM in the SOC. It can domain join if you are running Windows Pro.   
What ideas do you have?
Yes, we always consider how the next product should evolve. The design of a Surface is the result of how we want it to be used. It is the result of how it works, in so many ways. The magnesium material influences the final shape, as well as the tech inside. We always push new materials and tech. New technology will allow our products to be used differently, which will influence how these products look. To me, design is how a product works. Everything else is mere styling :)
Will you fire your Turkey CEO? Because it seems like he is the reason that we are not getting Surface on Turkey. I can do that job better :)
And also the type case is great, but it hard to touch the bottom which the keyboard attach the tablet, and would u like have any suggest for that? Also the kickstand is not work really well when using side table? So will u get a hand on that? 
Thanks for the earlier reply :) How is the eMMC performance in comparaison to the SP3 SSD? Is it a significant difference?
I know, but some people like Mary Jo Foley really wants a laptop. A 14 " laptop could be really great and act as a hero device and a signature pc.
We'll get right on it
Can you tell us what the hesitation is to launch in the Indian market? iPad although expensive sell quite well so purchasing power is definitely there. It may not sell in large numbers to all the masses, then again it doesn't sell in those numbers here in the US either. This is the third iteration of the product, India is a big market with a lot of people interested and capable of buying a surface. Not to mention if corporates/Businesses decide to pick those up they could sell in volumes. Just curious what is holding you back?
I think a leather one would be really nice.
Can I get a Surface without a TPM? The German Government warned about Windows 8, 8.1, 10 and TPMs.
Bu AMA icin iyi bir soru degil Deniz. 
most people definitely get a cover for it, but they want to pick their color. Not everyone wants a pen. we definitely think that choice is a good thing. 
Will we be seeing new touch covers? I have a lot of Bluetooth keyboards and would prefer to just have a light weight but functional cover. 
Hey this is StevieB, working on it we noticed this happening in a very specific instance. Likely when you draw really slow and across the diagonal of the screen so it is quote a specific instance specific.  It is really hard to a draw a straight line without the use of a ruler or the digitizer picking up the jitter in your hands so that is why people use a ruler to do this test.. but the ruler messes up the signal as it capacitivly couples . Most touch sensors are oriented as a grid, when you draw across the diagonal the touch controller has to interpolate position of the pen and linearize its path. As for active capacitive digitizer were the best out there! But we can do better. One of the improvement just involves boosting the voltage of the pen. So I cannot give you a timeline, but just know things are in the hopper. Other digitizer techs have other artifacts and issues, they dont do linearization as well, and have accuracy issues. Pen is really important to us, and our best people are really focused on making and maintaining it to be awesome and the most realistic digital pen experience in any tablet!
yeah
Thanks for the link. That's the technical, straight-forward and honest answer I was looking for. So I guess the tech just isn't quite there yet unfortunately. Looking forward to the future though.
Wooden Veneer hehehe. Have you seen the Toast covers for Surface Pro 3? I got one and it looks awesome!
Surface 3 is definitely made for Windows 10 and vice versa. don't wait!
Can you explain the pricing model?  I initially thought the Surface 3 was nicely priced, until I realized that if I want 4GB of RAM, and 128GB of storage, along with the type cover, I'm suddenly looking at $730 for a relatively under-powered laptop.
I did an analysis of the price of the surface line in Europe: http://www.ambassadorbase.at/2015/fur-wen-ist-das-surface-3-ohne-pro-mit-vollem-windows/For students (pen and keyboard are must haves) there is only a 10 difference between the 128GB Surface 3 and the 64GB Surface Pro 3. Taking the faster CPU and bigger screen into account there is no reason for students to get the non pro version.One reason for this small price gap is the price of the surface 3 keyboard cover. It's 149. The keyboard cover for the Surface Pro 3 only costs 129. What's the reasoning behind these prices? In my opinion they make the Surface 3 quite unattractive.
A metal type cover (made of vapor Mg) would be nice.
&gt; Bu AMA icin iyi bir soru degil Deniz.  Google Translate: It 's a good question , but the interior is not the sea .  Love it. 
We work really hard to create the most natural writing experience. That includes pen tip materials and the feel on the glass.  When you try the Surface Pen on Surface 3 or Pro 3 you'll feel how great it is!
Even if there was, it could fairly easily be cancelled with little notice (Surface Mini), so any comment may be a bad idea.
We have a lightweight functional cover.  It is only 4.9mm thin.. go for that one.
With so many low end Lumia phones coming out. I feel as though the Lumia brand is becoming that of a budget brand.   Are there any plans to make a surface phone with the high end magnesium shell, pen support and top of the line Specs?
I want to know if there is any hope of improvement with a software fix. while it's true that every technology has it's drawbacks the jittery pen is about the worst drawback you can have as an artist. can this be fixed? or at least improved with better pathing algorithms? the pen on the Pro 1 was so wonderful.
Why is every device so different? Does the Surface Team realize that every time [re]design decisions like ports being moved (or connectors changed) on newly introduced Windows devices, you are killing off any traction for 3rd-Party accessory ecosystems to develop and help promote? (Compared to Lens and Mag-Swipe add-ons for iOS, for example.)
Have you considered making a power cover for the surface pro 3?
Wait they removed these in tablet mode?  That stucks, that's windows 8.1 best tablet feature.
is Surface3 featuring that Surface Pro3 audio bug as well?  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7pCB8i0l08I
S3 eMMC is about 50% of SP3 SSD. If your workload involves heavy file transfers (like video editing) recommendation is SP3.
According to [this review](http://www.theverge.com/2015/3/31/8317597/microsoft-surface-3-tablet-features) from the verge, the Surface 2 keyboards will work on the Surface 3, so the Pro 2 keyboards will probably work as well, especially as they are both 10.8 inches.
Feel free to send a PM :) Ever since the first release I'm waiting for Surface in Turkey. And is this answer translated?
Thank you and the whole team for making such amazing products Panos!Where are you from in Cyprus?I live in Nicosia,it would be great if we could schedule a meeting!Best wishes to you and your family!
Big fan. I have just two questions:  1. Is the Surface 3 coming to India? 2. Will Surface remain a brand for hybrid devices only or will we see a 'Surface' phone in the future?
I have one of the original Surface RTs (courtesy of Build 2012) and I love it dearly. It is my constant companion. However, a great deal of the value that I derive from it comes from the cross-compiled programs that I run under the jailbreak for 8.0. Now that RT appears not to have a future, would you consider putting in a switch to allow RT users to bypass the prohibition on running non-signed desktop executables? I would dearly love to be able to upgrade to 8.1.  Perhaps it could be a final gesture of kindness to those of us who are sincere Surface RT enthusiasts?
We can boost the signal and the pen to fix :) !! stay tuned :) 
Any possibility at having the option to connect an external gpu to the dock of the SP3 or even a SP4? 
 First off, after hearing the the Surface 3 contains an Atom processor, it kind of made me cringe. I've owned three separate Atom devices, one even built for Windows 8, and had a degraded, unenjoyable experience on all 3 devices. What about the new Atom in the Surface 3 is different that will offer users a better experience? While not recommended to run tools like PhotoShop and Visual Studio, will it be able to adequately multitask and browse the web without any freezes, crashes, or other various issues that Atom users have experienced in the past?   While I know it seems shameless, I thought it wouldn't hurt to ask, so would you be so kind as to give me a Surface 3 (and a pen)? I really enjoy drawing and my last Windows tablet bit the dust. I can't afford a new computer, and the only one i have left is a low end machine that's merely just to hold me over til i can get something better to replace it. I know it may be a bit much to ask, but I thought I may give it a shot anyhow. Better to of tried and failed than to never of tried at all.
Correct. Although several apps have software smoothing.
yes, we have internships and have had some amazing people on our team from them!  lots of great improvements - probably better just to point you here for the highlights! http://www.microsoft.com/surface/en-us/products/surface-3
I don't want to question your love for your mother in law, but ... you know. She'd want the keyboard, dock, and pen too, sold separately.  Maybe a non-hobby/lifestyle gift would be preferable; maybe some wine aerator/carafe and nice leather gloves.
[deleted]
Loved my Surface 2, loving my Surface Pro 3 even more. Chargers are expensive to come by because of the proprietary connectors - do you know of any third party chargers that are trustworthy? On the WiFi front, sometimes my list of WiFi networks will only include the one I thought I was connected to, and all my network traffic fails - is there a fix for this? Also in the network fails front, when connected in to an SSTP VPN (running on a Windows Server), many of my Metro apps fail to recognise that I am connected to the Internet. Seems to be something to do with forced tunneling - can this be fixed?
Thanks for replying. It would be as easy as "select your cover color" but I understand.
Is there anything involved with the screen technology that causes jittery scrolling with a finger on the screen?  Scrolling is flawless when you flick the screen but it seems like the framerate drops when your finger on the screen.   Just curious. 
Hi surface team, Is there any focus on improving customer service procedures with the launch of this new tablet? In the past with my surface pro 2, It was held captive at the service center for two months with very poor transparency as to what was going on and then returned damaged. Would like to return to surface but this has left me very turned off to all MS products.
 Having a concern. Only Spartan takes~2.4 GB ram, giving 64bit #win10 on new surface 3 with just 2gb ram, wont it bottleneck the performance  ?
I am a mechanical engineering student from Seattle, and want to work in product design. I graduate in May Do you hire entry level positions to work in the hardware lab? I have been looking on Microsoft's website, but all the hardware position seem need need 5+ years of experience. 
The real translate : It's not a good question for AMA, Deniz. 
Hello Surface team. Really impressed with the new surface 3. I went to a Microsoft Store and loved it, especially as a proud owner of the original rt, surface 2, pro 2 and hopefully soon for surface 3.  My question is more about the aesthetics and materials used for the type cover keyboards. Have you ever tried testing different materials for the type cover keyboards?. I always wanted to see a faux leather option on the type cover which will give it a more premium lasting feel on the surface.   Also by leather I mean on every part of the keyboard but the keys. I  believe this would give it that added oomph to the public In terms of style.  Thanks!
Hard to answer this one.... follow me on twitter
Mac user but will be buying a Surface 3.  What changes will I notice when the OS gets upgraded to Windows 10 later this year?
Windows 10 has a right swipe for the Action Center and a left swipe for task view.  Charms are gone, the (now considered legacy, as Windows 10 apps don't include this) 'app commands' bar that happened from swiping from the top or bottom now requires you to swipe from the top, press the hamburger menu button, and then tap app commands, and so on and so forth.  Where Windows 8 felt like an integrated tablet experience, Windows 10 feels very much like a Windows XP Tablet Edition (and continued in Vista and 7)-type design.
Did you ever think about adding a little wing on the end of the stand so you could create a flat base for the Surface to lean on?   _/ like that but not as long poking out. 
Fabric is great! Something else could scratch the screen. Maybe a better fabric? Someone in the automotive industry surely has invented something durable and nice to the touch. The current feels kinda sticky.
Do you have any benchmark numbers for the surface 3 processor? It seems the processor is comparable to an i3, but I wanted to verify.   I might get the 4gb one as a portable drawing pad.  Also what is the expected battery life?
Hello! Will there be a new TouchCover for Surface 3? I love the TouchCover for my Surface 2 and it is so much cooler than the TypeCover.
Seems pretty clear the answer (for the Surface 3) is no, since this was the top question for the majority of the AMA and it wasn't answered.  (Edited for clarity.)
Thank you for the reply. That was the honest, straight-forward and technical response I was hoping for. I'll keep fiddling around in Photoshop and see if there are any brush settings I can muster up to reduce the jitter. Looking forward to a better future.
Why wasn't a USB Type C port included on the new Surface 3? This tablet would've been an auto buy for me if at least one was included.
Well, that was rather dismissive of them. 
How closely is the Surface team working with former Nokia's Mobile Unit? Will we see some of the innovations from them like a Pureview  Camera with Zeiss Optics  or ClearBlack screen technology come to the Surface?
Thanks! :)
Will Surface 3 come to Brazil? And Surface 3 pro will ever come?
&gt; Bu AMA icin iyi bir soru degil Deniz.  Bing Translate: That's a good question, BUT not for Davis.
I know that. But for those who doesn't know Turkish, there should be the real translation I think :)
very easy 2w power target from the cpu against (3)4.5-6w i think apple  so it's not so fair to compare s3 with the new macbook
I'm not interested in the 3, that's why I asked about the Pro 3 since I doubt a Pro 4 will be out in time. Only time I bought a Surface was the Pro 2 after the previous BUILD when they gave us the $500 store gift card (and right before the announce the Pro 3 unfortunately). Previously I had the Surface, Pro 1, and my phones all from attending BUILD. HoloLens would be nice but I doubt it'll be ready. A new flagship phone would be nice but I doubt that too.
[](/sbstare) With the release of the Surface Pro 3, you made a bunch of claims regarding its "lapability".  As it turns out, it doesn't actually fit in the laps of *anyone* who has tried mine except for one 6'4" guy.  Are there any plans to make a future Surface that actually works in the lap?
Since S3 ditched the previous SP's mag charger and introduced USB is that a sign that all the future SP devices will also use USB? I was hoping there would be a dock with a decent external GPU as there's a similar MBP Thunderbolt external GPU device. Please, at least make it capable enough to get a KinectFusion process to achieve a decent 15-20fps frame rate with a midrange NVidia or AMD chip, that way the price of the docking station wouldn't need to go up drastically...  P.S. How about a free S3 :)
this
I've owned a Surface RT since the beginning, and I love it for certain things, but there are times when I wish I had gotten a pro -- specifically, any time I want to use software that never made it into the Windows Store.  Can you please speak to the process that led to cutting the owner of the device out of the decision of whether or not to execute signed binaries?   Do you consider it to be a mistake? Or was it a calculated move to get Intel to do something about their lackluster Atom performance?   As a consumer that decision caused me considerable pain, and I know I am not alone in that regard.  
Why do some programs say I need NET framework 4.0 or higher when i try to install them on my surface pro?  It has the up to date net framework. 
Hi, and thanks for doing this AUA! I've been a long time Microsoft fan, and the Surface was the icing on the cake. Before I begin with my questions, I want to thank you guys for your hard work and contributions towards making the Surface and amazing features involved. Truly a really nice product.    My questions are:    ---  * How did the design come about? What provoked the idea for making/producing the Surface?    * Since you launched the Surface, how has it increased in popularity? Is it competing well with the other big name brands?    * How successful was the new Surface 3 projected to be? So far it seems to be doing great, so congrats! what was the mentality behind switching to full Windows OS from Windows RT?    * Any plans you can share about the Surface 4 (or possibly another name)? Any features/updates/attributes you're considering adding to current or future Surface devices?    * Out of the whole launch/design process, what has been your biggest mistake and largest success?    ---    Again, thank you for doing this AUA!     Congratulations on the Surface 3!  **Edit:** Wow, the time really fooled me. It's 2 o'clock here at the moment, so didn't know this thread was posted an hour ago.
I think the Chinese version of the Surface doesn't have a TPM?
Yeah they'll definitely answer this
How has the culture of the Surface team as well as the whole of Microsoft changed since the dreaded writedown?
A calculator cover would be badass.
Are there any improvements for IT staff in regards to custom image building, increasing automation, and deploying the Surface with Windows 10?  Even after reading the 160 page deployment guide, my experience deploying a custom 8.1 Enterprise image to the Surface Pro 3 was full of frustration, hours of forum research, and compromises on what UI customizations are worth digging into the registry for. I liked the hardware of the Pro 3 but making it easy for IT staff appeared to be an afterthought. Also, will the new surface be released with firmware that supports an ethernet adapter out of the box? 
Completely agree, I wouldn't mind a thicker Vapor Mg type cover. Hopefully for the SP4 ? :)
Yeah, I agree and thank you for that, Deniz. Both of the above translations seemed wrong.
*too humble
@panos_panay? or @surface? (I follow both, twitter handle same as name here)
Yes, except the surface 2 and pro 2 were 10.6 inches and a different aspect ratio.  The surface 3, and pro 3 are 3 by 2.  I'm not saying they won't work, but they won't fit perfectly.  
I genuinely HATE the way windows 10 TP looks and feels compared to Windows 8.1. It's officially harder for me to use my Surface Pro 2 as a tablet than it is to use my Surface Rt. That's really saying something. 
I am a total Microsoft enthusiast, and I am a high school student who saved up money from work to buy a SP3 but I can't handle the lack of placeholders either.  Maybe someone will hack in a 3rd party solution?
Not on the Canada store. Any idea why?
[deleted]
A lot of people gave the Xbox crap for forcing you to buy Kinect with it. I think it's great Microsoft learned from that and has decided to sell the accessories separately. 
What's the new Lumia if not a Surface Phone? Or are you just asking about synchronizing look/feel of the hardware? Or just branding?
That's annoying,  it really sound unessecary to me. But I'm one those people who love the current interface regardless of touch or mouse.   I was hoping they would just make it customizable not remove functionality.   Maybe I'll adapt,  but I'll need to test it first.
[deleted]
hey surface team. One of the primary features of the Surface devices is the pen, when is the pen jitter issue going to be fixed? It's a [significant problem ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etu_MJ41Eqo)  which is being reported widely
Hi Surface Team! I think the Surface 3 is prices are very competitive , being cheaper than the iPad Air 2 and doing so much more and just being way cooler in general, but I think the accessories are quite expensive! The amazing Type Cover does cost $200 dollars extra here in New Zealand for which you could buy a Lumia 635! I think that Surface would sell better if the keyboard was cheaper. What do you think?  Type with a Cyan Type Cover on my Surface Pro 3!
Awesome, I will definitely be applying!  Thanks for the reply!
Will Surface 3 start to seek in Latin America since you guys stopped to sell the Lumia tablet used to be available here? I'm speaking from Brazil.
BS answer.
And I guess we're getting a bit shafted by the USD-EUR exchange rate+23% sales tax.
B for Bathiche or Ballmer... the world may never know.  I really think you should have gone for 1:sqrt(2). Maybe for Surface 4 and Surface Pro 4; make the Pro double the size of the non-Pro.
I'm so happy about the Surface 3 finally I can buy a Surface too. Any plan to a Windows 10 pre installed once released? Why 609 for the lower version here in Italy?
[deleted]
just looked this up. absolutely beautiful
http://www.toastmade.com/surface/
I agree, favorite color 100%
I think you should say that Microsoft became an Apple-like company : hardware + software. at an even greater level. Both are completely relevant atm (Surface / Lumia / Xbox / Windows + pro-softwares).
I'd switch from my iPhone for this if anyone at Microsoft is listening 
Thanks for the reply!  It's just once you add the price of the pen to the S3, it's within 5 of the SP3 price and I personally feel that the SP3 being heavier is a small price pay for  every other hardware advantage that it offers over the S3.   While the S3 will be preferable for some, i don't think it makes sense from a consumer prospective and i fear that those consumers who do purchase one will have buyer's remorse in the future when comparing to the pro line and what ifs, which could lead to a negative experience and word of mouth.  I can't recommend the S3 at the current prices when asked which i would buy but as a student, without the Pro, i would have been lost. So that gets my rec.  I would love to test one but as there's no MS store in the UK and no where that stocks atm, do you know when stocks arrive in the UK for sale?  
I'm at work and missed my chance to ask this very question as it seems that everyone forgot about them, but it seems that I would have been in vain anyways.
The purchase wouldn't be a requirement. You can buy the tablet alone for $499/$599 and if you so choose, add a bundled KB/pen for $79 at the point of sale (one chance to save - urgency to decide). The current option is to pay $170 for those. That makes the $499 price look like a 30k car where you have to pay extra for floormats. Nice little surprise at the register. Just my opinion.
I want an official reply from the Surface Team 
Boosted signal=extra hover distance?
Where is the Surface phone?
The latest Laptops that offer external GPU expansion all use a proprietary connector to circumvent AMD/nVidia endeavors that their cards are currently not possible to be connected via Thunderbolt. The GPU manufacturers themselves prevent us from plugging in their cards externally for stationary gaming capabilities.
Why should I recommend someone the Surface 3 when the Pro is only 10 more? http://www.ambassadorbase.at/2015/fur-wen-ist-das-surface-3-ohne-pro-mit-vollem-windows/
Oh, I see what you're saying. You want the accessories to be cheaper.  I can't say I wouldn't want it to be cheaper too, but the Surface line has always been a more premium product. I wouldn't be surprised if Microsoft were selling the devices on a very thin margin (or, at this point, probably a loss) and hoping to recoup some of that through accessories.
Questions:  - Why not making the full sized USB port USB 3.1 (also full sized, like [this](https://i.imgur.com/L5gYPxA.jpg) one)? - Will there be a Power Cover for the SP3?  My Suggestion for the SP4:  - SD Card Slot (full sized) - Power Cower with ability to connect via Bluetooth - One Thunderbolt port for external PCIe cards or DP video output - Multiple USB 3.1 ports - Keep the 4 pole audio jack - Easier dual-boot abilities
Are you sure about the 10.6 inches? Looking at the [Surface Pro 2 site](http://www.microsoft.com/surface/en-us/products/surface-pro-2) it's showing 10.81 inches
I like this idea! I've never thought about it being leather.
Could you please create a type cover made of metal? (E.g., the same material the Surface is made out of) Because there's still some give in the current type covers for the SP3.
Phone?
[deleted]
Hi there, Surface Team  I live in South Africa and have been a fan of the Surface since the first release, only being able to use the tablets on travels to other countries but have never been able to obtain 1 as South Africa is still a market the Surface is not sold. So to my question.  Along with the release of new tablets are there any intentions of expanding the availability in other markets?  Keep up the great work! I will continue to watch the advancements and innovations of future Surfaces with great anticipation and excitement  Many thanks!
Some kind of leather perhaps.
Tweed. Oh my god, tweed. My SP1 type cover is sort of felty, but if you guys did something with Harris Tweed, you're not only halfway to a fashion collaboration, but you'd also have something awesome. Plus it's hardwearing blahblahblah wondermaterial.
What happened to the blade program? It was such a neat idea having touch covers that did different things
Intel WiDi works fine for SP3. Use that instead of Miracast.
you can turn the pressure sensitivity off on your brush in photoshop.
Can autofocus be enabled via firmware update on the Surface Pro 3? Seems silly that the $500 Surface 3 will take better pics than my $1500 Surface Pro 3.
I saw this the day it went up. I still wanted to see what the Surface team has planned, if anything, as my personal choice would be a fingerprint sensor.
considered putting more than one SD slot to the surface?
There's a Surface 3 LTE...
Yes they do. Just go into the store and show them your student card and you'll get 10% off your purchase (can't be used in conjunction with any bundles those as they're already discounted). 
I think it's more plausible that Surface Pro 4 will be ready for it, and that they didn't say anything because they can't say anything about Surface Pro 4 yet.
I hope they stay far away from AMD. Their CPUs are much less power-efficient than those made by Intel.
Yeah, sorry, that's what I meant, though I stated it poorly.  That the answer for Surface 3 was most likely no.
They said 4k30 for S3, no details for Pro 4.
Wait wait wait. ATT won't just work with any device?
It's smooth, but writing is easy.
He asks whether there is a software fix, and you reply that it can be fixed in hardware.  That's really unclear.    If it truly can be fixed in hardware or software, they would have done so by now.  Usable pen input isn't a priority, I guess.  
I hope not. I miss the 16:9 options. Now there's no current Surface model that comes in that form factor.
&gt; This artifact likely happens only when you draw really slow and across the diagonal.  This is not true.  The artifact happens *always*, but it is easily detectable and reproducible when you draw slow diagonal lines.  Just try writing handwritten text, compare the Surface Pro 2 to the Surface Pro 3, and the jittery handwriting on the SP3 looks like you have arthritis.  
Isn't India flooded with very cheap devices?  Also, Surface is doing quite well. It's growing very rapidly, and as of a few months ago was worth $4Billion/year. Pretty soon they will tell you it's now worth $5Billion/year.
The way they have been talking about Win 10 and how good it is, I pray there are more changes to be made to the preview, because the preview is not good enough to move me off of 8.1
Would have been nice if they talked a bit about using a finger print sensor in SP4, or 3D camera. I would go for the fingerprint sensor.
[deleted]
Ah. Roger that.
With Windows 10 and the Xbox One integration, will the Surface 3 be able to handle gaming in browser? Or would that be more for the Pro3/4?  Also if you need a product tester, I'm your man.
Well, honestly, you don't see Apple users complaining that the iPad is not bundled with the keyboard. The Surface has a touch screen keyboard just like the iPad, so I don't see what the problem is.
No, it's not. Where do you see that? I only see a few extra USB hubs, and all the "devices" are USB devices, not PCIe. USB ethernet, USB audio, etc.  Also note that Thunderbolt would appear as a _normal_ PCI bridge (as does PCI express!) in device manager.
Online store. Not in store. 
Will you be able to choose between win8 or win10?
There are external Thunderbolt GPU enclosures for sale, some of them even at reasonable prices, and they work without a problem in both Macs and PCs with Thunderbolt. So WTF are you talking about?
Yes, you can buy one.
Yes, you can buy one.
Your department can buy them.
Just get a windows 8 laptop.
[Microsoft Recycle for Rewards Program](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/recycle)  Just bring your Surface device to you local Microsoft Retail Store. 
I doubt it. An external GPU dock would be more niche than a 15" 4 lb "Surface Pro Workstation" with a quad-core i7 and mobile Nvidia/AMD GPU.
[deleted]
How does the Surface 3 perform when running Visual Studio?  Also, can I have one? You'd make a broke college kid's day.
Do you think they would say no to this?
For you.
Ah ok. No MS Store around your parts?
Is have to say you guys are doing a pretty good job. Keep it up.
I'm using a Toshiba Encore 2 Write, and I think its pen gives a little nicer experience than the SP3.    One thing about Windows 8.1 I don't like is that when I am writing, my palm accidentally activate the application bar.   This is really bad.   The Samsung Note Pro doesn't have this kind of problem.   
Is it still accurate that the docking station of surface pro 3 will fit the pro 4? I believe someone said so when pro 3 was released but can't find the quote.  Also, that should mean the charging port will be the same I guess?
The IT team at the office is having trouble writing disk images to the SP3s - so they do manual setup, patching for all the new ones. Any guides or tricks?
As an FYI the Surface can use the already millions of non-store apps.  Looking at it that way the Surface has many more apps available to it vs iPad.
The surface product line is clearly not for you then. 
there is an education part of the website for Canada I've visited it many times. http://www.microsoftstore.com/store/msca/en_CA/edu
No sure about /u/Cheezies but my nearest MS Store is 5 Hours away... :(
Can I get a recording of the sound so I can play it on my SP3 every time I open the kickstand?
Can I join your team? 
Why do you say that?
as long as they don't price it like apple and make it 75% more expensive then the regular one :S
It is possible to manually install intel's drivers and they seem to work quite well.
I use mine (SP3) in portrait mode every day for writing notes and I love it. It is basically the size of a real piece of paper.
3K carbon fiber or a natural (leather)
Why not use USB type-C?
I tried the once but things didn't go well. Have any links for that?
Can I install Linux on the tablet?
I'll have to use one and see, but I really like the adjustability of the SP3. Sorry to see it didn't make it to the S3.
&gt; This artifact likely happens only when you draw really slow and across the diagonal  This makes it sound as if this is a non-issue. I can assure you that the jitter is bad enough (and is not only present on strict 45 deg. diagonals) to put off any artist using deliberate, slow stroking in order to achieve better line control. For anyone who cares, there are screen-caps, videos of this jitter available showing the extent.   I can understand that Microsoft chose to live with the current performance in order to get the tablet out there (since for many tasks pen performance is  more than adequate), but I really, really hope that the SP4 will have addressed this problem to the satisfaction of the artists looking to enjoy what is otherwise a great piece of hardware and who are are disappointed with the pen stroke quality possible on the SP3.
Still. You may have hit a price point by excluding the accessories, but once you add them the SP3 becomes a better choice. The pricing is wonky here in Canada as well:  http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/30x6wr/microsoft_unveils_new_surface_3_400_less_than/cpx2ku1
Will the surface 3 or surface pro 3 ever have a battery keyboard like the surface pro 1/2?
Hi Surface team! Since its start I've been following the developments of the Surface line, hoping to see improvements on each iteration and now with the SP3 and the non-pro 3, they all just seems so perfect. However as a working student from the Philippines it's impossible for me to afford the SP3 along with the fact that we don't have a Microsoft Store here and all the imported ones are almost 2X the price! Will the Surface 3 be directly available in our country?  Also, will you have a trade-in program for other Windows devices? I currently have an ASUS T100, and it's really serving great for me so far, though once I can save for an upgrade, I wouldn't need to have both.  Thank you for bringing to the world these great devices. Please keep it up!
Can you please create a version of the Touch keyboard for the SP3 (or 4)?  You inadvertently created one of the most ergonomic keyboards in existence (albeit with a learning curve) and then abandoned it after making it extra awesome with version 2. I've owned both Surface Pro's and evangelize the heck out of them, but the lack of Touch keyboard has been the dealbreaker for the SP3 for me.
Yes, this! I think they'll pausing it for a while while they're settling for the "this is it" form factors as to maximize the user's investment, and I think the SP3 and Surface 3 are very good form factors. But hey, maybe they have something else with the SP4!
[deleted]
A factor would be cost for this relatively new tech, given that the Surface 3 is targeted at the low-end. TBH we're not gonna need it anyway, and the plethora of micro-USB chargers are something they surely have considered for one of their main targets which are students (consider forgetting or losing a type-C charger now -- you'll have a harder time getting one; easier to just borrow from a friend then go for a sure buy when there's time).
As far as they're concerned, it doesn't even exist. That's how they manage all these awesome releases that are never spoiled by leaks.
The screen size is 10.6 inches. The actual size of the device itself is 10.81 inches.  
I hadn't thrown 10 on my SP3 yet. I always figured those were missing because I'm using a mouse. It's a shame they didn't leave it as an option.
Having used a SP3 for a long time, while the freedom of a continuous kickstand is awesome, I would happily trade it for a 3 position kick stand. Seriously, 3 is good enough, it will be more stable, and if it can make it cheaper, or more reliable, or thinner, I would be all for it. All these come at once is just bonus.  
Hi,  At 10.8" the Surface 3 is only 1.2" smaller than the Surface Pro 3. Is there any chance of a smaller 9" Surface mini? There is nothing with Windows in that size space at the moment and would give people the lighter tablet they really want without being too small. It could even scrape into the sub 1 lb / 0.5 kg market which would be a competitive advantage. Most OEMs are going down the cheap road and everything is 16:9 and 8" or less, very few with a pen. The Surface 3 is too big for people who want something to complement their Surface Pro 3. A 9" Surface mini would be 229 mm wide with the same bezel so just large enough for the existing keyboard dock.  The Surface Pro 3 does well to replace A4/legal sized notepads, but there is nothing closer to the 9x7" notepads used in primary schools. A 9" Surface mini would be much better than the 8" OEM tablets with pen. The 3:2 aspect ratio makes a huge difference, loving it on my SP3!  I would love LTE on a Surface Pro as a concession. Is the team interested in other use cases where a slightly smaller screen would be desirable?
The Surface Keyboard predates that whole debacle. They bundled the keyboard in the past, but it only came in black and the cost was no difference. The simple fact is, Microsoft has to thin of a margin with Surface as it is, and that keyboard tech aint cheap.
To anyone interested I made a post in /r/Surface on how to do this. [Here you go](http://www.reddit.com/r/Surface/comments/31d34o/how_to_install_intel_hd_graphics_on_windows_10/)
I hope you guys can clear the air and announce the plan for the WinRT upgrade to Win10.  Lots of users have the impression that RT won't get a single peak at Win10 ever since the upgrade matrix chart was released.  http://www.windowscentral.com/microsofts-windows-10-upgrade-path-chart-shows-windows-rt-officially-dead 
That's very disappointing. If Waco tablets and software can do it, so should all tablets. 
I get that, but I wouldn't necessarily say it's targeted at the low end. The angle I'm coming from is that in a sense it's a restart of the Surface (non Pro) line. It's priced to bring more people into the Microsoft/Surface family than just the Pro. They ought to put their best foot forward. I'm sure that with Type-C just now coming out, the connectors will be more expensive than micro-USB, but I doubt that it'll be too cost prohibitive. Type-C is the future, Microsoft ought to get in front of that and start pushing it. Especially in a new form factor. My fear is that with the dock they've come out with for this new Surface and their stated commitment a few months back to accessories is that it'll be a few generations before we see Type-C in this size Surface.
I think the answer is to look at the Intel product pipeline. The Surface Pro 3 is only capable of what the Haswell IGP is capable of.
I'd absolutely love this! I am having a problem where my surface 2 touchscreen randomly stops working for days on end, then randomly starts working again. They told me that I could send it in and get a replacement. If then I could just trade the new surface 2 for a surface 3, that would be GREAT!
No Gaming questions?  I am Tournamnet gamer. We play here locally in my state and we travel as well. I am tired of lugging around my Xbox One. Does the Surface 3 (match the graphic capabilities and gaming processing capabilities of the Xbox One?)  If not, I know you cannot speak on SP4, but have guys considered making a Surface that can rival the Xbox One and PS4 in terms of gaming. (Not last gen gaming Xbox 360/PS3) but the current gen gaming systems. 
Exactly what I want. I Windows (10) laptop made by Microsoft.
Three thoughts on this...first is that it's been communicated that not all of the tablet improvements are in Win10 yet.  I'm withholding judgement until all of the tablet focused changes are "in".  The second is that in the end, they are building an OS for billions of potential users.  Just because one person doesn't like the changes doesn't mean it's bad.  It could be just bad *for that person*.  I remember a friend who was swearing-off MS type of angry about the changes between Win2000 and XP...but the masses liked it.  In fact so much that MS has had trouble prying it out of the hands of many.  Finally, I too like Win8/8.1.  It took some adapting but once I did it was fine.  That said, you and I need to reflect that the masses have spoken and we are in the minority.  Win XP still has more marketshare (see point #2) than 8 and 8.1 combined.  Microsoft has to make changes whether you and I like 8 or not.
What are the possible use cases for needing a GPS in the surface ? 
The problem is, it's not just a handful of users.  Pretty much every piece of feedback in the desktop&gt;Continuum category says that tablet mode sucks.  And I get it.  They obviously did need to change things on the desktop side of the OS in order to appease most of the desktop users that weren't upgrading to Windows 8.  However, there IS a tablet mode switch.  In other words, there's already the possibility to give desktop users what they want while making a nice experience for tablet users as well.  With that being the case, it would be nice if that switch actually gave even a halfway decent experience when tablet mode was enabled.  Now, I know that Windows 10 isn't done yet, but again, that just speaks to my point that I hope Microsoft knows internally how much of a problem they have with tablet mode in Windows 10 (despite all of their public statements to the contrary).  They can't fix what they don't realize.
[deleted]
How is the compatibility with Linux?
You can follow the guide here to extend the 4 hour limitation. http://blogs.technet.com/b/askcore/archive/2014/11/05/surface-pro-3-hibernation-doesn-t-occur-on-enterprise-install.aspx  Or just disable hibernation altogether and let it behave like the Surface RT (CS forever)
The Euro exchange rate, I believe.
Why not just get another one?
I've asked this question before.   The reason it's never answered is because Intel doesn't want it to happen and close partners like Microsoft can't say so.   You can do the same with Thunderbolt2 now until Intel comes and licenses the hell out of any enclosure making it cost prohibitive. They want you to buy a powerful desktop and a laptop, not just one device. 
The same as with a phone or iPad. 
Did you intend to reply to me?
Sure, individual users can do that, and it's great to have that option.  Most consumers will never know that can be changed though.  I guess what I was trying to ask was more if a 4 hour limit was really the best default when it gives so many compromises.  Doesn't matter now though.
I can't think of any other than maps and tagging pictures. 
Give lazy nezumi a try.
Microsoft isn't good at naming things. 
Thank you.  I have sent replied to the DM you sent I can't wait!
Damn, I just discovered semantic zoom this week and love it. That'll suck to loose it in W10. 
The only real solutions for laptops with support for external GPU solutions connection via a proprietary interface, a reviewer stated the reason was (from what I remember) that the GPU doesn't detect it being run externally that way, the GPU won't make weird shit that way and the manufacturer who designed the interface has full control over the recognition by the GPU.   Also a main problem is driver support, as all of that is theoretically possible, it won't work if it isn't supported via a driver, an analog to that would be gaming under Linux, it would work perfectly if all the drivers and support by the manufacturers would be there. Gaming under Linux with an nVidia card i.e. works only if you use nVidias proprietary drivers and even these don't are inefficient and probably only support few features of your card.   "Intel are currently **blocking certification** for any TB based eGPU solution, by purpose.   I think they, and the whole laptop industry, will continue to do their best to **destroy any chances** of good eGPU solutions, for **business reasons**." [Source](http://forums.macrumors.com/showpost.php?p=18494927&amp;postcount=17)  "Another big issue is obviously driver and operating system support. ... nearly all Thunderbolt-equipped devices are Macs and traditionally Apple likes to have very tight control over drivers ..., making it hard ... to develop an external GPU that would also function under OS X.   In the PC arena, a few motherboards and products exhibit Thunderbolt support, and it is primarily up to **Intel working with Microsoft** to develop Windows based **drivers**." [Source](http://www.anandtech.com/show/7987/running-an-nvidia-gtx-780-ti-over-thunderbolt-2)
Just wanted to mention that my SP3 has *already* replaced my desktop... and my secondary laptop and Nexus 7. I've run into absolutely nothing I can't do on it... yes, some gaming benchmarks push it beyond the breaking point, so really current gaming could be an issue... but aside from that it's been perfect. Development, VMs, music production and yes, some gaming, plus all the basics, it's kept up with me without missing a beat... I run two external monitors plus the Surface itself so I still have my 3 monitor setup.  In other words, I've made *zero* compromises in making my SP3 my only PC :) 
There aren't any good 3rd party vendors. When you have to get drivers from one vendor and OS updates from another, you run into problems. Not to mention the bloatware that comes along with it.
just Tried it! It's similar To The built in stabilization stuff in The software I use. It's functional but still a little annoying. I've done some acceptable work on the surface but I'm hoping they can do something about the jitter and make This thing the dream machine I was hoping For.
So /u/lordcheeto is on to something here. Let me get real boring for a minute or just skip to the end if you want the tl;dr.  There is something called [VSOE](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vendor-specific_objective_evidence) (*Vendor-Specific Objective Evidence*) which is a relatively new(*ish*) part of financial accounting under [GAAP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaap) (*Generally Accepted Accounting Principles*) which many times (*but not always*) technology companies have to adhere to. Without going too crazy on details here are the basics...  1. **Tech companies (*like any company*) have to report their financials and forecast future revenue for shareholders.**  2. In order to do that they may have orders booked but not yet delivered. Because stuff takes time yo! So let's use an example.  3. In this case let's pretend the third largest school district in the United States decided to provide every teacher with Surface Tablets and paid Microsoft for that.   4. As part of that they decided that they wanted to have Microsoft or a Microsoft partner do other things like install some special kind of teacher software or provide training and services for it.  5. **Where is this is going and I why do I give a shit you ask? Great question!**  6. If I own a widget factory (*let's pick on HP - since we are talking tech stuff*) and I sell you an ink cartridge and you buy it on a Thursday and I ship it to you on a Friday I can recognize the revenue. You bought something from me and I gave it to you. All is well and good and the accountants are happy. Why? Because as simple as it sounds you bought something and you got it. End of story. Not so simple with VSOE so let us continue our journey...  7. In large tech purchases organizations want other extra stuff. Let's go back to our earlier example of a school district. They want services to install it, configuration, extra support, training and the list goes on.   8. **I can tell, you are still asking "why do I give a shit?"**  9. Well this is where VSOE comes in. In order for a company to "recognize" the revenue on a purchase they have to show they have delivered on all parts (*hardware, configuration, training, etc.*). Giving someone an ink cartridge, wheel barrel or whatever is one thing but all that other stuff I just mentioned is another and that involves people, time, etc and that's where things get fucked up.   10. **Now let's tie it all together with talking about "futures" and how VSOE gets in the way.** Before we wrap these final comments up though I want to add one thing. You may be saying "yes but I'm just one guy who wants to buy a Surface I'm not a huge school district." Doesn't fucking matter. End of story, nothing changes, good day sir, &lt;insert your own favorite blow off statement here&gt;.  11. So tech companies are often poked to tell their customers the future of a product. If they imply a feature during a contractual lifecycle or even imply it's existence in the next version as part of securing that contract and it doesn't happen because of life or whatever **they have now breached that contract and they cannot recognize the revenue.**   - Yes but I've seen people like Steve Jobs waving around a magic fairy dust machine and talking about its release!   - Yes you have but are they actually selling the fairy dust machine at that time? No. They are talking about the future and what they want to produce as part of their product roadmap.   I can guarantee you Microsoft is already engaged in conversations with companies who want to place large orders. Making any public statements about the future of Surface 4 will put them at potential violation of VSOE if they don't deliver exactly every feature.   That's why they are being quiet about shit like that and it's why other big tech firms get cagey about committing to features in pending products or keep other ones in BETA for years.   **tl;dr: I don't have one... if you really care read the shit I just wrote out otherwise go have a beer - it's Friday.**
I know I wasn't clear in my first statement, but I really didn't expect any statement with regard to a Surface 4 or Pro 4.  The fact they wouldn't comment on it for the Surface 3 in an AMA designed to give them free publicity for the Surface 3 makes it very clear to me that the Surface 3 will not support Windows Hello.  If it will, they'd be bragging about it.
Weight okay, but cost? Is that what the Surface 3 is? A compromised 'budget' device?  It should be a light version of the SP3, but by no means a cheaper one. It should be cheaper because it's lighter.
[deleted]
So that's how it feels to be on this end of the stick.
Wait, is the MacBook $500? That's actually an amazing price.  (Also, if the starting price for S3 is $500, you'll want to tack on $130 for the keyboard cover.)
What's windows hello?
Apparently Broadwell supports 4K60, so yes.
If everything is wrong, then there must be other products that are closer to your meeds
One of the problems with slow movements in general is that pixels are aligned to a grid. If you're moving slowly, there are times the pen moves up and other times it moves to the right (etc.) so you kind of rely on quicker strokes to make diagonal lines.   The larger (non-pixel) wavy lines are still an issue, though, but again there's probably no way around it.
The surface 3 has a lte version I think?
If you're running VMs (plural), you'll want one with lots of RAM. You can get 8 GB on SP3, which should be enough for light loads with only a couple light VMs.
Most screens today have some anti-reflective coatings. I was comparing my mom's iPad against my Stream 7 ($100 tablet), and mine looks like it has twice the reflections.  Matte screens would pick up all the finger prints and be very hard to clean, so it's highly unlikely we'll see touch screens without gloss. I do think we'll see brighter backlighting and less-reflective glass, though. (There are many types of glass, and some are even more transparent than what we're used to.)  (Also, I'm rooting for proper transflection, which would use the bright sunlight itself as a backlight, which would completely negate the problem and also save battery. It's what the Pebble uses.)
If you think about it, a similar SP3 i3 would cost $1080, right? (Except there's no 128GB model, so $980 for 64GB.) So you're saving about $300 by getting a slightly smaller machine with a weaker processor. But it's also fanless, which is a bonus.
From what I've seen, a lot of the problem with stuttering systems comes from the storage. Anything with a HDD or eMMC has historically been pretty bad. Only in the last year or so has eMMC pulled itself up a bit. I'd wait for the benchmarks on this one, but I'll bet a $600 Atom device is going to perform a great deal better than whatever it is you bought.
Did you just use a hashtag in a Reddit comment?  P.S. Just read up on page files. You're likely not using all that 2.4 GB at once (do you have twenty tabs open?) so it'll cache them to the drive. At that point, switching between tabs might lag for a bit.
Having little needly bits along the bottom of the stand that rotate to connect the kickstand to the base of the Surface would probably add more support than that. It would need more engineering and would be fiddly, though. It might not be worth it.
He replied further below about the Atom getting about 80% the performance of the i3:  /r/IAmA/comments/31c0tu/we_are_panos_panay_and_the_surface_team_at/cq07z8w
These kinds of products are designed over the course of multiple years. For example, they were working on the Power Cover before the SP1 came out, but they didn't release it for over a year afterward.  I'll bet they had no idea Apple would trump everyone like that. USB Type C would have only been really viable a few months ago, but it was probably late enough into the development cycle (i.e. basically finishing touches) that it would have been impossible to change it.  We could possibly see Type C on SP4, but I wouldn't be surprised if we have to wait.
The problem with lapability is that it does have to do with the size and shape of peoples' lap. Like, I'm sure children have a hard time using an iPhone 4's huge screen one-handed.  As a 6'4" guy, I'm one of those people who scoffs and says, "Well, of *course* it's lapable!" I've got a few spare inches on my legs, so even someone just short of 6' should still be able to make it work. I suppose they should supply lap measurements so that people can measure themselves and make an informed choice.
Most Atom computers these days seem to charge over USB (at least 5 W, from what I've seen), while a larger computer like the SP3 needs upwards of 15 Watts just to run. USB 3.0 only supplies a bit less than 5 W, and I don't think I've seen chargers much above 10 W.  Something that uses USB 3.1 Power Delivery with Type C, though...
Hey, a $100 point-and-shoot would do better than either. I don't think they believed a camera to be very important when designing the hardware for the first few generations.
The Surface Pro 1 only got about 4 or 5 hours on a charge, so it made sense to release the Power Cover. It's horribly thick and heavy, though, which completely ruins the concept of the thinner and lighter SP3. The new ones get upwards of 8 hours, anyway, so it's no longer necessary.  (Some of us like really long battery life, but there are external batteries and stuff that work with SP1/2 and SP3.)
Years ago, when ultra-thin laptops started coming out, there was the question of throttling and fanless designs. Since then, the SP3 came out with a strong processor that throttles due to temperatures.  Is there any plan to introduce a dock with built-in cooling? Some kind of Peltier solution or something? Even with Atom, I'll bet the Surface 3 can't keep up with high-performance demands without getting warm and throttling. I was wondering if you had any plans that would obviate me throwing my tablets in the freezer to cool them off while playing Minecraft.
Can you tell us how low it can throttle? I've created a low-power mode on my HP Stream 7 where the Atom core drops down to 500 MHz.  (While playing Minecraft, it overheated and dropped to 15 MHz before climbing back up slowly as it cooled. I learned that Windows 8.1 runs pretty well at 150 MHz! That was really neat to see.)
"Surface team here! We made sure not to disappoint Surface 2 owners by making the Surface 3 so much better, so we reprogrammed the driver model to bloat the OS quicker and also tweaked the graphics driver to crash about twice a day. So don't worry, Surface 3 won't run Windows 8.1 with the same level of reliability!"
This one's fanless, so it's likely to be susceptible to localized heating. If you could build some kind of fan-cooled anti-thermal pad to place this on, that would improve your long-term performance.
Im just treating any unanwsered question as a yes.
Wait, when you say "consumer" and "business" are you talking about Surface 3 and Surface Pro 3? Because yes, there are a lot of hardware differences.
No, that's actually their entire reason. Frankly, they and everyone else shouldn't be quoting a $500 price. Instead, they should be including the pen and cover prices in there. $680 starting, when purchased with a pen and keyboard cover. Then people can judge that value with ease.
The way I saw it, a Surface device doesn't really have much of a margin. The margin is offloaded to the keyboard. It's kind of brilliant like that, because if you buy a second keyboard you've just nearly doubled their margins. 
No, I'm not talking about the Pro. The Surface 3 will be sold with Windows 8 Pro for business folks. The consumer version will be sold with plain Windows 8.1, i.e. no domain join, bitlocker, hyper-v or hosting a remote desktop session.
I'm guessing they'll release Surface 4 a few months after the Surface Pro 4.
Are there any plans to support capacitive hovering eventually? I've been using an AutoHotKey script to hover over things, but IE actually steals my clicks and sends the cursor to a random position so I can't hover over drop-down lists (which was the entire reason I tried doing that).
I wonder whether surface 3 uses EMMC or SSD? And MLC or TLC, especially the type of 128G?
Does S3 128G type use MLC or TLC? Will Microsoft offer a Virtual PC program(like XP Mode)? Will previous surface pen work on S3?
Hmmmm, thanks for pointing that out, I hadn't realised the lowest SP3 was only 550, that's very interesting.  I've been looking up the S3 for the last couple of days and was pretty set on buying one, but that throws a spanner in the works! With the pen included too, as you say, it's a direct competitor, and having an i3 over the Atom just feels like you're in more familiar territory.   Definitely going to have to do some more research! Like you said in your reply, I wish there were stores where we could do a side by side comparison! 
I don't think everything is wrong, I really like the Pro 3 but it is too expensive. I think the Surface 3 should have either been cheaper to match the hardware or be worth the extra money (For example, 4GB over 2GB of RAM)
Yeah, I agree with you. I myself also disabled hibernation on my SP3
No issue and same as surface pro 3 are absolutely not the same thing. My girlfriend sp3 WiFi is atrocious, even when transferring files over our local network. This has been the case in three houses, in two countries.  We've conceded that the only way to get anything resembling a consistent connection is using the internet wired. Judging by internet chatter we are very much not alone.
Yes, the Chinese version does have a TPM.&gt; TPM  
Of course.
The discount on accessories is not working. 
I suspect this is why it's a "3". I'm pretty sure this was supposed to be the surface 4 alongside a core m surface 4 that is not ready. They didn't want to usurp their flagship by not releasing a pro obviously.   There were rumors about the pro 4 having a smaller atom model. 
"Ping me"  Ugh 
Right? I'm sure this was originally a four but the pro 4 was not ready yet. 
True, but I was hoping to hear about plans for a thinner client.  A Windows 10 tablet still has desktop mode and is therefore too complicated for, say, my mom.  She stopped using PCs years ago but she loves her Android tablet. 
&gt; The only real solutions for laptops with support for external GPU solutions connection via a proprietary interface, a reviewer stated the reason was (from what I remember) that the GPU doesn't detect it being run externally that way, the GPU won't make weird shit that way and the manufacturer who designed the interface has full control over the recognition by the GPU  This does not make any sense. Specially as long as the host side the connection is Thunderbolt, how is going to add a few proprietary interfaces inbetween going to help with "recognition"?  &gt; Also a main problem is driver support, as all of that is theoretically possible, it won't work if it isn't supported via a driver, an analog to that would be gaming under Linux, it would work perfectly if all the drivers and support by the manufacturers would be there. Gaming under Linux with an nVidia card i.e. works only if you use nVidias proprietary drivers and even these don't are inefficient and probably only support few features of your card.  No, this is not true at all. The benefit of Thunderbolt is that it is PCIe, and thus it does not require _any_ changes to GPU drivers! This is the reason eGPUs _work at all_, otherwise we'd still be waiting for nVidia or ATI to work up their asses. Look in Anandtech, DIY eGPU, etc: they never use Thunderbolt specific drivers, they use the generic GPU drivers!  Btw: As a Linux user I take offence at such lies. The proprietary drivers are often better than the Windows drivers. The free drivers are almost always less performing, but on the other side they often support MORE features of the card than the proprietary ones (e.g. accelerated video encoding on older cards, more codecs on newer cards).  &gt;  &gt; "Intel are currently blocking certification for any TB based eGPU solution, by purpose. &gt; I think they, and the whole laptop industry, will continue to do their best to destroy any chances of good eGPU solutions, for business reasons." Source  Seriously? A random _forum post_ as source? Wait while I go find my tinfoil hat..  &gt; "Another big issue is obviously driver and operating system support. ... nearly all Thunderbolt-equipped devices are Macs and traditionally Apple likes to have very tight control over drivers ..., making it hard ... to develop an external GPU that would also function under OS X.  Yes, Apple uses _different firmwares_ for all their GPU cards. You cannot buy a PC GPU and install it on a Mac, even when Macs had PCIe slots. This is well known and has nothing to do with Thunderbolt.  &gt; In the PC arena, a few motherboards and products exhibit Thunderbolt support, and it is primarily up to Intel working with Microsoft to develop Windows based drivers."   Yeah, this is what we're complaining around here. That MS does not seem to care about Thunderbolt. 
Battery life for the Surface Pro 3? My mom has one &amp; I don't really get it. It does run on Windows. 8.1.1 like my Laptop right? 
I think they're just debating which version to buy.
How much are the product placements on TV shows and movies helping? Also, if you guys could make it a little less obvious, that would be great.
Last Atom device i purchased was a $500 Samsung Ativ Smart with Windows 8 and eMMC Storage. It was terrible. Had 2GB Ram which was always having a strain put on it, Windows explorer constantly crashed, web browser was unstable, and I had all sorts of issues with software crashing or having errors.  Just because it's an moderately expensive atom device doesn't mean it's going to perform like a moderately expensive device. This is why Im both worried and curious about the new Atom X7(?). Microsoft, I'm sure, has a little more quality control than Samsung in regards to their Windows devices, so I doubt they would put an Atom in a Surface if it was going to perform poorly. But at the same time it's still that Atom name, which makes me cringe, as they, historically, have been designed as cheap budget processors designed for maximum portability/power-savings and minimum performance.  But i suppose you're right. I'll wait and see how the reviews turn out once it's out (though I'm not going to put much stock in the benchmarks. Real world usage often results in different levels of performance than what the benchmarks have indicated.). Hopefully my financial situation will of changed by then so i can look at possibly buying one!
Theoretically, sure it should work, but I don't see many eGPU setups, the experience in practice differs sometimes from the theoretical solution  &gt; lies   A random forum post as source  I'm merely seeing allegations and claims and no sources, I on the other hand tried to research and read through user reports. I don't see why a user posting on a forum about this issue has any less credibility than you have making your claims here.   &gt; As a Linux user  I see the problem now, classic aggressive community.   As I don't see this conversation heading anywhere I'm not engaging in it any further.   BB
This is an important question. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8JNuqEz_GCQ
Just ordered this very combo from Costco. Good to see they get it. They will sell tons.   They don't sell stuff at a loss so it is interesting to hear the cost argument. Nope. It's a profit argument.  Anyone who buys it somewhere else is getting ripped off.
&gt; Theoretically, sure it should work, but I don't see many eGPU setups  Well, for a start, _YOU_ quoted two such setups. For an additional 300+ success stories, check http://forum.techinferno.com/diy-e-gpu-projects/ .   &gt; I'm merely seeing allegations and claims and no sources  Exactly which claim I have failed to provide sources for? I am very careful with this. Obviously no one is going to find a source which says "Intel is not trying to boicott eGPUs".  &gt; I see the problem now, classic aggressive community.  Thanks for the useful conversation...
What new Lumia?
The [Microsoft Lumia 640](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/mobile/phone/lumia640/), releases this month
tsk tsk tsk...
Is there any possibility of using OLED display for the next generation of Surface product?
A surface phone would be a hero phone, not a mid level phone.
Well, is very reassuring that it will crash less than my HP laptop! ;-)
Yes and?
Well, according to the current roadmap, placeholders won't be there in the final release but it will come in an update, so I guess we just won't be able to update right away? Also, I'm up for cancelling my Office 365 subscription and switching to something else if it works.
Why doesn't all Surface Pen packs at $50 include at least two spare nib tips?!  One pen drop to the unprotected tip ruins it for scratch free use on the Surface tablet screen. I don't have time ordering or going to MS retail locations to restore a simple nib tip! Thanks I expect this to be included with the Surface Pen purchase when Surface 3 is soon released to market. 3 cent plastic nib tip... 
I think its because it has no LTE connection That aside, see this guide: http://lifehacker.com/turn-a-windows-8-1-pc-into-a-wi-fi-hotspot-with-the-com-1593327340
They can't reply on future products(see /u/jasonlee 's comment)
Please add an external battery to the new upcoming type cover which allows us to use it longer without a charge(even if it makes it slightly thicker)
I loved the quick switch left swipe between apps, I can't imagine having to move my hands away from the sides to pick the app I want to go back to....
[deleted]
What's your point?   -Cheap tablets are available in the US also.  -If a product is growing isn't the logical next step to release it in more markets?   Doesn't make sense to me to keep it from any potential market. With the lack of an alternative almost everyone is using iPads. Which is a shame as the Surface 3 &amp; Pro's are so much more capable devices and I think will do well over there. 
Haven't used this specific device. But I have found that the cheap sub $20 miracast adapters dont work that well and need that you install their software pakages to for the device to do anything. Again I am not sure about this particular device you have linked to. I use the Belkin miracast adapter (and from what I understand the netgear pushtv, microsoft/nokia adapters work the same as the belkin). The belkin does not need any additional software installed. And with the belkin you can extend your desktop onto the tv. So while netflix plays on the TV you can browse the internet etc on the surface pro itself. Works pretty well for me.
thanks for the help!
Perhaps it is poor assumption on my part, however when I think of India it is poverty that springs to mind. I was not aware that it was common for people over there to have devices that I would call high-end.  Over here in England I see a lot of people with the latest generation Galaxy phone or iPhone, or the previous generation device. Is this something the average Indian can afford?  I thought the reason Nadella was pushing cheap Windows phones to India was because Indians cannot afford more expensive devices - similarly with the Android phones Google has been pushing out there.
Is it just me or does the Surface app not open (i.e., opens then force-closes) on W10 10049?  Thanks for all of your work, this is a fantastic device (SP3) and has so much potential.
Will there be a Surface 3 LTE 4G released for AT&amp;T?! If so will it be available on launch release day?!  Please inform us prior to the pre-order opertunities...
Since you only received a roundabout answer...  The x7-z7800 chip **does** support virtualization by way of Intel's VT-x extensions [wiki link](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Intel_Atom_microprocessors#.22Cherry_Trail-T.22_.2814_nm.29).  Whether that will be supported in S3's BIOS is another question. With 4GB of RAM you could still have a 3/1 or 2/2 host/guest split and make things work if performance can be compromised, or you can keep processes to a bare minimum on both. If you have reasons why the SP3 is off the table right now, this could be a fair second choice. I will certainly be installing VMWare on mine day 1.  EDIT: Slower drive speed on the S3 means virtual memory swapping could be pretty painful, so carefully optimizing host/guest to fit in available RAM would be important.
Thank you so much for answering my question. Yes, performance can be compromised (yes, the SSD in S3 is eMMC), and the reason I asked in the first place was the acknowlegdement of VT-X2 in the Intel technical manual for the chip, but not mentioned at all in the summary view of the chip features (ark.intel.com). That left me wondering if Microsoft would support the virtualisation feature, or not.  Header 3.1 Features, p57  http://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/processors/atom/atom-z8000-datasheet-vol-1.html
[deleted]
I haven't heard anything back yet did you receive my DM?
Followup Q: Is the S3 at all powerful enough to be suitable as a secondary "light" development machine to use when travel? I use Visual Studio. 
Like I said, eMMC has been pretty bad until just the last year. I'm going to hold off on my judgments in that area until I see benchmarks.  Your other problem was that you bought Samsung. I've never used a good Samsung device. It's always been buggy and kind of cheap. I wouldn't say Microsoft attains Apple's level of quality, but they're up in that neighbourhood. I don't have any long-standing problems with my SP1, which feels weird after many years of dealing with crappy PCs.  At the same time, this isn't going to perform as well; so if a Surface Pro wasn't enough, this won't be either. (I'd probably recommend a $100 Stream 7 instead.)
Can I have one? (It's worth a shot)
I can't find a definitive answer on whether the S3 bios will support VT-x or not, so it looks like we'll be waiting for full reviews or day 1 testing. I'll PM you my own results once mine arrives. 
Will the surface 3 4gb RAM model be able to run dota 2 smoothly? Also does this device have educational pricing?
Why isn't there a voucher included for every stylus pen purchased for a free fabrick pen loop of the users color choice?  So the curent Surface 3 keyboard covers no longer have a manafacured pen loop. Instead this has become a $5.00 accessory with double stick adhesive backing.  I get it some will decide to stick it to the keyboard cover in the original location where others will decide to stick it to the back of the Surface on the right or bottom side where there is no side buttons.  This is why there should be a voucher with each pen sold for the user to pick the color pen loop they desire with out having to pay extra for this.  Why should we be expected to pony up another $5.00 for a feature that should be built into the unit or at least included in the box?
and uh...what company would this be?? Are you the one who I should be calling to deal with certain supernatural phenomena? 
SUMMARY : Given the evolution &amp; change of Microsoft's Flagship "Hardware" product lines.. Surface RT/ Pro - 1 &amp; 2.. so far, how are are all three recent flagships; Pro 3, Surface 3 &amp; Pro 4 going to be positioned wrt to each other in terms of Product (processing/ computing configs, power/ battery/ size/ weight) &amp; release Timeline?   ... i.e. .. Given that Surface 3 is releasing after Pro 3 and before Pro 4, when can we expect Pro 4 models to come out, and what would their configs be compared to Surface 3 and Pro 3.. ? .. What's your strategy/ tactical roadmap &amp; thought on how they are all going to be positioned towards market (product market fit). 
Well there are people from a wide spectrum...some of the poorest people as well as some of the most richest people in the world are over there. One of the reasons India is considered a strong market is because they have a very strong middle class.    But my point being the Surface is not a product for the masses, you wont see each and everyone buying a Surface in India just like you don't see everyone in the US buying a Surface. Heck the Surface is an expensive device for a lot of people in the US also. But there is definitely a large chunk of people in India that would buy a Surface. And once the corporate world see's these are useful devices, which I am sure they would they would easily pick them up for executives and employees.   As for the Samsung Galaxies and iPhones, there isn't much of carrier subsidy over there so the people who buy them there pay Full price for these (about $800 - $1200). A price if the average American had to pay for an iPhone may not buy it either. But still you see a decent amount of the latest and greatest Galaxies, not as many iPhones though but a few here and there.   I don't know, I could be wrong. I just don't understand the reasoning behind keeping a product from a market for three generations. Say it only sells a million units, then it sells a million units, why not? I just know every other house I visit there has an iPad. My parents have two iPads. Almost every business meeting I have been to has a bunch on iPads in the conference rooms. So I think it would sell well, but I might just be biased towards the Surface (Pro).
Hello, will the Surface 3 be able to run two non-daisylinked 1080p displays? For example, one through the mini-displayport and one through the USB 3.0 via Displaylink software? 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1AsoSnOmhvU
[deleted]
I PM'd this because I wasn't sure if this was a dead thread or not, but I'll post it here as well because I'd really love it if you all saw and responded, no matter what the response is :)  Hello! I was reading through your Surface Pro 3 AMA and saw the top comment in that thread was someone saying "Can I have one? (Doesn't hurt to ask, right?)" in regards to the (at the time) new Surface 3, and I figured it wouldn't hurt for me to ask as well. I'm a broke high school student, looking to get into Android app development (Partially due to the fact that I love programming and have the most experience in Java, and partially because I'd like to provide for the Microsoft Ecosystem since you've announced Project Astoria). I always thought the Microsoft mobile devices have been wonderful pieces of machinery, but I've never brought myself whenever I have the money for a new phone to purchase one because I've always thought "Well, there's nothing for it, so why get it?" But seeing as you guys have been so forward thinking I'd love to be given the opportunity to develop for your systems.  My current computer is a really old Dell laptop running a lightweight Linux distro (Windows was actually just too much for the computer to handle anymore D:) and, as much as I've tried to successfully develop on it I've never been able to due to it being so painfully outdated, and that's really dissuaded me from my love of programming.  I know this is a really really steep request, but I come to you with the same one as SailRacerX: Could I have one? From someone who dreams of developing to someone who's already made it, it couldn't hurt to ask :)  Anyways, I'm sorry for the wall of text and I'm sorry for bothering you. Please, should you need to say no (or just want to say no), I'd absolutely understand, and I'm really really quite sorry for wasting your time. As a small footnote, I really love what you all have been doing recently :) As the phrase on Reddit goes, Second Place Microsoft is best Microsoft (And I don't see you guys staying in second place for long, or even losing this drive for incredible machinery when you're no longer in it) Thank you for your time, and again, sorry for the nuisance!
