Greetings. Thank you for this. I am a contract cybersecurity specialist for the U.S. DoD. Do your consider governments or private/criminal organizations to be the larger threat to privacy?  
I would say there are three different categories instead of the two you presented: (i) governments, (ii) private, and (iii) criminal. As far as threats, I'd rank them in order of threat as (1) criminal, (2) government and (3) private. You at least have a consensual relationship with most private organizations and can choose what you want to disclose to them, in most circumstances. 
How can we trust you support privacy if you're willing to answer any question? You clearly aren't keeping it private. 
[deleted]
What specific parts of bill c-51 should we be most concerned about?
Threat to whose privacy, over what time period? In the short run, I agree with privacylawyer that criminal is likely more of threat to individuals in the short term. In the longer run, for us as citizens as a community, I believe that unfettered mass state surveillance poses more of a threat than criminals do.
The unrestricted information sharing within government is what keeps me up at night. All government information can be transferred to and pooled in the security agencies with NO LIMIT on what they can do with it. We usually have a requirement under privacy laws that information can only be used for the purposes for which it was collected in the first place (or a compatible purpose), but once it is in the hands of CSIS, CSE or Public Safety, those protection measures no longer apply.
My caveat would be "who defines what's criminal?" But the definition I would use posits that criminals start with a malevolent intention to do bad things. Governments usually have a benevolent intention and incidentally do bad things. 
Hello all! Great to see you doing this. How do you feel that threats to privacy from the private sector, such as from online intermediaries like Facebook and Google, compares against threats emanating from government?
What free or paid services can you recommend for automating as much of an individual's ongoing privacy protection as possible (e.g., a service that continuously monitors and removes data from data brokers' databases)? 
And, the amendments really don't do all that much to address the problem of this failure of limits on information disclosures, see:https://bccla.org/2015/04/bill-c-51-submissions-redux/   
If a Canada border agent asked for your laptop password, would you give it? What about you facebook password, or banking? Is the law clear on this?
The short answer is that it depends. An even shorter answer would be 'yes'.   If we start with the assumption that privacy is the right to control what happens to information about oneself, then state surveillance presents the broadest risk, since the state can eliminate many privacy protections. In Canada we are seeing this potentially playing out with a new bill in our Parliament, C-51.  On a day to day basis, individuals may be most conscious of privacy infringements done by private organizations collecting and using profiles about the individual.  From a measurable harm perspective, criminal organizations will be responsible for identity fraud and theft, but for fewer individuals. 
For good primer on C-51 and the challenges it presents, see https://openmedia.ca/sites/openmedia.ca/files/Bill%20C-51%20-%20A%20Primer.pdf 
Kris: which do you prefer providing, advice or trains?
People may be more sanguine generally about private sector issues, but at the end of the day I don't think that there is a bright line distinction between them. There is a fair bit of evidence to suggest that we are moving to an era of public private partnerships for surveillance and data interchange.
Yes it's trite but how do you respond to the typical "I don't need privacy because I have nothing to hide" rhetoric ?
What do you think is the biggest privacy misconception, or *overstated* privacy fear, at play in Canada today?
[deleted]
Also, privacy concerns about the U.S.-style no-fly list that can be shared with foreign govt's https://bccla.org/2015/03/wait-theres-more/ 
My view is that you can more actively choose to participate or not with private sector entities. With your government, you have no choice. Privacy is fundamentally about making choices about how your personal information is collected, used or disclosed. You have few choices about government and they can coerce you in ways that private companies cannot. At least in Canada, there are more tools to force compliance on private companies but governments have essentially make sure to limit accountability in how your information is collected, used and disclosed. The law enforcement and national security exceptions in privacy and evidence laws are enormous.
What worries me most is the parallels to COINTELPRO in the US some decades ago. When C-51 passes, what will enthusiastic and ambitious people in the security services do with the power to disrupt?
Thank you for answering. 
Thank you for answering. 
We are likely to get some clarity sometime soon. (http://blog.privacylawyer.ca/2015/03/quebec-man-charged-with-obstruction-for.html).  As for me, personally, I would not but I have the benefit of legal privilege as a lawyer. My laptop, e-mail and even Facebook messaging include privileged materials.   I am glad to see someone standing up for this.
Is my cell phone being tracked or intercepted by the use of devices such as "Stingrays" like in the United States? 
I agree that generally speaking those working for state security agencies have good intentions. However, in terms of posing a 'threat',  great harm has been done by those believing they are doing the right thing. In this case, the secrecy, unaccountability and scale of surveillance our governments are now conducting pose a significant threat to our democratic institutions in that far surpasses what criminals are able to achieve.
I would agree, and I would echo the concerns Andrew expresses about unfettered mass state surveillance.  The degree of power granted to those agencies, and the contempt displayed in the Bill for the Charter of Rights and Freedoms (including judicial oversight), is of concern.  A good discussion of the bill is here: https://cdnantiterrorismlawaudit.wordpress.com/
I suggest they drop their pants and ask me the question again. Or provide their SIN. Or give me their tax return. Or give me the names and dates of birth of their children. Or tell me what they dreamed about the night before.
Can you tell how much and what kind of porn is on the smartphone I'm redditing with right now?!?
It really depends on the organization. I've seen some pretty heroic standing up to government demands, by both the private and the public sector.   I have seen a number of companies who refuse to be co-opted by government to betray their users.
From what I've been able to see, you should assume that what you hear about in the US is happening in Canada. Is **your** phone tracked or intercepted? I don't know. Are phones tracked or intercepted in Canada? Very likely. 
The amendments to C-51 really don't do much.
I'm with Daniel Solove who argues that the question isn't whether or not you have something to hide, but is what gives them the right to ask. I don't concede the validity of the question.  Some things are integral to the human experience, including intimacy and the ability to have solitude from time to time. These are both facets of privacy and mean that everyone has something to hide, if we accept that crude formulation.
I really, really, really don't want to know. Really. Please don't tell me.
I think underlying this question is the assumption that I am not doing any "bad" - but what most of us have to be concerned about is not our "badness", it's our vulnerability.  Even something that you might celebrate in one context - say, a welcome pregnancy, may not be something you'd choose to disclose in another context - say, job interview.  
As have I, but the fact that they are indeed heroic suggests that isn't the norm.
I think the reply is to say that its not about hiding or not hiding.  That position deeply misstates the purpose of protecting privacy.  Privacy rights are fundamental to the protection of individual human dignity because every person requires intellectual, emotional, spiritual, psychological and even physical space in order to fully realize their potential.  We need these kinds of space, and time, to figure out what we think, who we are, who and what we want to be.  In the short terms this allows us to try out activities, personas, ideas and values, and to change our minds.  This facilitates longer-term individual growth and maturation.  And this leads to a healthy democracy, because individuals who know these things about themselves can make ethical contributions to their society.  
It seems to be consistent among those I deal with, but that may be selection bias.
Perhaps the biggest misconception today is the notion that is possible to overstate the privacy threat in most domains. The confluence of the surveillance ideology, new technologies and commercial apetites for personal data has create a perfect storm.
In my own community, I have seen devices which look VERY much like IMSI catchers (complete with antennas) mounted on the columns of a bridge which goes over a park. In this area there is constant graffiti/ vandalism. If they are actually installing such devices for such trivial matters... You can be sure they are implemented elsewhere too. 
How would you suggest people prepare their digital devices for border crossing? Encryption? https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2015/04/27/encrypting-laptop-like-mean/
Faced with this situation, and without a compelling good reason for needing to access my laptop, I would refuse (I hope). Not just because it held other people's information or communication, but also in principle. The contents of our electronic devices are becoming so revealing of our inner and personal lives that forced disclosure should meet a very high standard of probable cause. However, while I couldn't claim lawyerly privilege, as a tenured professor I believe I'm relatively well protected and so have advantages that most others wouldn't have in such a situation.
Agree that the answer to this question is "very likely".  And one of the reasons we don't have a more definitive answer, I would guess, is that there is some care being taken not to allow information collected in this manner to find its way into a criminal proceedings, where this collection method could be exposed and challenged.  We have put the question to various policing bodies and gotten a "neither confirm nor deny" - aka: almost assuredly 'yes'.    
Limit what you take to the minimum necessary and encrypt it.
I would say that it is the notion that somehow keeping your data in Canada somehow magically keeps it safe. Canadian intelligence and national security agencies are as bad as others, and our agencies are joined at the hip with the Five Eyes partners.
Have you seen this? https://bccla.org/2015/03/8-things-you-need-to-know-about-bill-c-51/
But if they can ask for passwords, can they not also ask for keys?
It depends on your definition of privacy, and what you consider a threat.  To me personally, privacy is more about choice, than the act of being (pseudo) anonymous. From that perspective, the government and several internet infrastructure companies (Akamai and Cloudflare, to name a couple) intercept/collect your personal information without your consent.   Most of the typical examples of privacy invasive companies like Facebook and Google, you choose to provide your information to them. Although both of these companies have embedded their privacy invasive hooks outside of their main websites (Google Adwords, Google Analytics for example) so you should have script blocking on if you want to avoid interception/collection from them while on the web in general. Also, you should make sure all of your transport layer information is encrypted (TLS/SSL) from end to end to avoid MITM attacks. (Although both Akamai and Cloudflare effectively do MITM on much/most SSL traffic, but we'll save that for another post)  Criminal examples are another example where you were not given the choice to control what happens to your data, so I consider that privacy invasive.   As for the threat, we each have our own barometer; for example, do you measure a bigger threat to have one of these examples above sell your health history privately to your potential employer and insurance company or would posting the private video session with you and a loved one be worse? What about the selling your private intellectual property discussions or documents to your competitors for the next society changing innovation in bio-tech?  The latter is the least discussed in my experience, and the biggest threat from a business perspective. Most companies are not encrypting their emails to this day for example, so all of their IP is being gathered by governments, private sector, and making it into the hands of organized crime.   
Legislation like C-51 seem to be predicated on the assumption that there exists some threat that needs to be addressed, and that the most effective way to address such a threat must include the forfeiture of some privacy.  First of all, do you think that this analysis is a fair representation of the arguments being provided by policy makers? If not, why not, and how would you characterize their arguments?  Assuming my interpretation wasn't too far off the mark, how valid do you think either of those assumptions are, and why? 
So far, it is unsettled whether they can require you to provide decryption keys. (They can ask for anything.) It will be good to get some resolution on this question.   I do not cross borders with sensitive personal information. If I have to travel with privileged information, my plan is to tell them to contact the senior prosecutor and follow the protocol for law office searches. My one phone call, if I get it, will be to the bar society to tell them I'll follow their instructions. 
I was not offering to share, just honestly paranoid about hackers pulling 'stuff' off my phone.   Although considering most male redditors carry around porn on their phones, maybe it's a legitimate question. Is porn on the short list of stuff we should NOT carry around on our phones/mobile devices?
Very good post. Thank you
The range is wider than the immediate vicinity. I would hope that law enforcement isn't using technology for such a trivial thing.
I think that's a charitably rational way to describe the way that supporters of C-51 put their arguments forward. More generally they are an appeal to fear.  I don't accept either assumption in the way that they are formulated. With respect to the threats to Canadians in Canada, to the extent that this may occur mass surveillance and the kind of activities that will be generated by implementing C-51 will make the real police work of identifying and apprehending these criminals much more difficult because it will generate so many false positives that real threats will become harder to find.  The best defense against terrorism is to NOT BE TERRORIZED. Sacrificing our privacy and democratic protections is giving in to terrorism.
I agree that the distinctions between private and public bodies in terms of their information practices is becoming increasingly fuzzy. As the Snowden documents show (see searchable archive at http://snowdenarchive.cjfe.org/ ), the NSA and its Five Eyes partner agencies work closely with key private sector actors  (e.g. telecoms (Upstream) and big tech companies (PRISM)) to acquire access to personal information and pursue more covert means where they don't get cooperation. Under the NSA's "Collect It All" precept, it is reasonable to say that essentially ALL personal data handled by private companies is accessible to security agencies. But of course it doesn't work the other way around. While private companies do hold enormous volumes of personal information, this is far less than state security agencies.  Also, the consequences of mis-use of this information by state actors is typically more harmful than by private companies.
I would recommend crossing borders with a freshly cloned machine, and once you're safely on the other side (i.e. at your hotel), login/pull down your business information. If you've logged in to your email, social media etc before that, it can likely be accessed.  Most border agents have devices that can copy/clone your devices (laptops, mobile phones), so encryption is great, but it's best to not provide the encrypted data where possible.  If you are encrypting your disk/data, one idea would be to create a new password before you leave, and only your lawyer knows half of it so you couldn't provide the whole thing if you wanted to. Of course this likely will not impress the guards, to say the least, and could have really negative consequences for future travel there, so I would default to assuming your entire devices will be cloned at the border, and take appropriate measures in advance.  I wrote about this in [Huffington Post "Are You Obligated to Provide Your Password at the Border?"](http://www.huffingtonpost.ca/kris-constable/preparing-to-cross-the-bo_b_6810310.html) but as the lawyers have suggested, this will be determined in the future. This assumes daeling with your own country's agents, and not on foreign soil as each country will react differently. 
A number of universities are moving over to cloud-based services - specifically Office 365 hosted by Microsoft which houses data on their servers in the US. Could you comment on possible issues with this? Do you think in-house servers are more secure?
Information ON your phone is, marginally, harder to access. Your adversary will need to install an app (or execute an exploit) to give them access and exfiltrate your confidential data.  If you are accessing sensitive information USING your phone, then you need to be concerned about the security of your connection, not the security of your phone.  Check out [Security in A Box](https://securityinabox.org/en) from the [Tactical Technology Collective](https://www.tacticaltech.org/). They provide information for NGOs and activists, but it will work just as well for your purposes.
Whether you are concerned about porn or anything else on your phone, use a password on your device and take advantage of whole device encryption. Other than the border crossing scenario, if you are arrested the police can search "incident to arrest". If they can't unlock it and you say no, trying to crack it the next week is no longer "incident to arrest". **USE A PASSWORD**.
One thing I've noticed again and again is the lack of awareness of other types of data that would collected and sent over public networks. I am referring to data from various IOT and Smart devices such as Smarter Meters. Almost any connected device leaks data to the internet about it's usage ect.    Has this type of passive data been considered or am I missing it?
Considering you can technically [build one yourself](https://security.stackexchange.com/questions/11550/how-to-spoof-a-cell-phone-tower-cell-site-base-station-homemade-imsi-catch), I would assume yes.   Most phones don't tell you which cell phone tower(s) they're connected to, so you'd have no idea if an unusual tower ([IMSI catcher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IMSI-catcher)) popped up and your cell phone traffic was rerouted through it.   
C-51 is an omnibus bill, so it's actually quite difficult to discuss it concisely, because it's so vast.  But in terms of underlying assumptions, there is clearly an attempt to convey the sense that we are faced with a threat that is unprecedented, and that by essentially defining almost anything and everything as "national security" we are going to be safer.  Some of the most interesting discussion about C-51 has been about how the bill not only will not make us safer, but is likely to have the unintended consequence of making us LESS so.  So, for example, as police and intelligence agencies are busily scourging our communications for evidence of support for terrorism "in general" (the new, incomprehensible standard), we are actually undermining our ability to do the very thing that security experts the world over call for, which is work constructively with communities and invest in community-based de-radicalization initiatives.  
Hospitals in Canada use large American software companies such as Cerner and Meditech for storing and handling patient Electronic Health Records and related patient data. Should we be concerned about this? Why aren't Canadian companies used instead? 
It was revealed that the GCHQ and the NSA, and presumably other agencies and subcontractors within the Five Eyes utilize dirty tactics online to manipulate, deceive, harass , and destroy the reputations of activists (among others). Such tactics include re-routing people to 'mirror servers' where bots or people posing as their friends can influence or otherwise effect the perceptions of the targeted in real time.   Based upon what you all have seen, have you seen evidence of this in Canada?  I have been taking part in the conversation for years and been trying to educate people about what is happening, but I myself have seen things on Facebook (and other sites) which have made me take a step back and say "something is really, really, really not right with this" It will sound paranoid to many, but these things that I have seen looked like they were deliberately placed (and subsequently removed/disappeared) in order to target me..  I understand the possibility that I could be over-analyzing patterns (I have a mind that is great for seeing through patterns), but the coincidences are too 'in your face' to ignore.   Regardless if it is true or not I have to say, about the era we live in.. There is no longer such a thing as paranoia. There is only due vigilance.   They seem to be weaponizing the internet and social media against those who can make a difference, or at least try. They seem to be attempting a process of psychological warfare against the people. They seem to be producing enemies of the state out of those who speak out in dissent with potent language. With C-51, they are seemingly trying to retro-actively legitimize the disturbing psychological warfare/surveillance/ spying apparatus that has already been developed and already secretly implemented.   Would you say that such concerns are legitimate and not just 'conspiracy theories'? Based on your own extensive knowledge?  
oops, training, thanks for the correction! 
If the encroachment on our privacy is primarily algorithmic and automated, then how can we hope to achieve anything individually if we do not leverage technology to automate most of our defense? 
I am concerned that the fear of terrorism within our governments is overstated to such an extent that it actually accomplishes the objectives of the terrorists. Thousands of people die annually in car accidents, but we do not think it's OK to have a 20kph speed limit. More people are killed by bears in North America than terrorists, but we don't put all bears in enclosures. The fear of terrorists is being used as an excuse to dramatically alter the relationship between the public and governments to such an extent that we are less free. If "they hate our freedoms", then is the response not to thumb our noses at them and guarantee more freedoms?
Aside from lobbying key government officials (if you are in a position of substantial influence) to legislate strong privacy protection laws, what could be a more effective use of your time as privacy experts than to coordinate with top programmers to assemble and maintain resources for employing techniques like machine learning to automate privacy defense? 
Do ISP's in Canada protect our privacy when it comes to request for our personal identifiable information, say for things like downloading music or movies? I read an article that said the maximum penalty for a Canadian citizen is 5k, is this true? 
On the second part of your question, in-house servers CAN be more secure, but are not necessarily so.  With respect to privacy there are a plethora of risks, so I'll just mention two. Outsourcing a service means that internal technical support staff may not have access to information, which reduces the risk of an internal breach, but the risk of a privacy breach is transferred to the cloud service provider.  Secondly, transferring the service to a cloud provider means that is likely to be stored in off-shore data centres and may be subject to access through those countries legal mechanisms as well as Canada's.  There are many more public policy issues raised by this question, not least those around academic freedom and intellectual property issues around the contents of academic systems.  One business rule for outsourcing is that you shouldn't outsource what you don't understand and most Universities' information infrastructure is so complicated that moving it to the cloud is almost certain to have unforeseen consequences. Any such move should be limited, targetted, measured and controlled. 
What is more "secure"? Surely Microsoft and Google have more resources and more skilled people to devote to security than any Canadian university CIO ever dreamed of. Being able to go down to the server room, look at blinky lights and know nobody has walked away with your server is only a fraction of the security question.   Organizations need to carry out a comprehensive risk assessment of whether using a service provider for these things. If data will no longer be in Canada, that's just one factor out of many. 
I agree that Canada's CSE/CSIS are very likely into mass surveillance as much as its Five Eyes partners, and indeed that keeping information inside Canada doesn't automatically keep it safe.  However, I strongly disagree with the implied inference that there is an equivalency of risk and that we should be indifferent to the jurisdiction of where our data is stored or routed. Briefly, Canadians' data while exclusively within Canadian jurisdiction has constitutional and legal protections, whereas under other jurisdictions it effectively has no legal protection. If our surveillance/security agencies are acting illegally and unconstitutionally, as it appears they may well be, then this is a problem we need fix urgently. And we have the means to do so. We have comparatively little or no effective leverage for fixing the problems in other jurisdictions.   For more on this argument, see: http://ecommoutsourcing.ischool.utoronto.ca/events/2015-public-forum/program-of-events/ esp the presentation by Lisa Austin and Daniel Carens-Nedelsky, Law, UofT: Jurisdiction Still Matters: The Legal Contexts of Extra-National Outsourcing
Most people don't agree to setup webcams in their bedroom &amp; bathroom, so they do in fact have something to hide. To me, privacy is about choice.   I've investigated privacy breaches, most of them aren't "hacks" or remote compromises, but people accessing information they shouldn't be, in that specific content. Having someone you trust (doctor etc) access your data inappropriately was the most common, in my experience. So while we may agree police and doctors should have access to the information in specific situations (warrant, you're their patient in the room), many systems allow access when you're dating their daughter and they want to take a little peek at your information.   Technically, there's no easy way to resolve this. How does the IT system know access is appropriate in that specific content?   If you could promise me that my data would only be accessed by individuals with proper authority in each context that I authorized, I'd have 'nothing to hide', but the fact is people constantly misuse and abuse access, and malicious people compromise these system.   Unless there is not one thing you'd want public about you, forever, including your health history, web surfing, bedroom and bathroom activities, you have something to hide. 
Currently, Canadian ISPs can't hand over your information to record companies and movie studios unless they have a court order. Bill S-4, which is not yet passed, may give them a loophole to do that.  Under the Copyright Modernization Act, the maximum statutory damages for non-commercial infringement is $5000.
To answer your second question: I don't think there are any Canadian companies on this scale to provide this service. 
Check out [this report](https://citizenlab.org/2015/01/christopher-parsons-effectiveness-telecommunications-transparency-reports/) from the Citizen Lab. It will give you some sense of what ISPs are doing.  
What are some protips you guys have for increasing an average user's security over the internet?
Why does this incredibly disproportionate response seem to be happening in nation after nation with a history of strong support for democracy and individual freedom?
To comment on one bit of this: The arguments about intellectual property raised by faculty unions is consistently a red herring and misinformed. Whether you use a cloud provider, an on-premises solution or put it on a USB stick and bury it your back yard, there is no impact in IP rights.
I wouldn't say that the Internet is being weaponized, but that those in power who chose to abuse their power will use whatever tools are available.
See the prior comment about Security in a Box from the Tactical Technology Collective. It's a good starting point.
Don't use any service that does not use SSL/TLS. The risk of interception is likely as great as the risk of misuse at the other end.
It depends on what you mean by 'secure,' and from what kinds of threats. I'm part of a research project that is examining the issue of outsourcing of ecommunication services, especially by universities. Our main finding is that in terms of legal protection against unwarranted access by state agencies, in-house hosting offers much greater security. See:  http://ecommoutsourcing.ischool.utoronto.ca/events/2015-public-forum/program-of-events/ especially the presentation by Lisa Austin and Daniel Carens-Nedelsky, Law, UofT: Jurisdiction Still Matters: The Legal Contexts of Extra-National Outsourcing
There is at least one Ontario company that competes across North America, but it's focussed on long term care, not EHR more generally.
If you're aware of an organization collection your personally identifiable information without your consent, you can likely file a compliant with the privacy commissioner (federal or provincial, depending contextually).   There are jurisdictional challenges, but there is precedent with American companies collecting the information on Canadians. [Facebook](https://www.priv.gc.ca/cf-dc/2009/2009_008_0716_e.asp) and [Accusearch](https://cippic.ca/sites/default/files/Judgement.pdf) for example. 
Unfortunately, it seems that the subjects of this AmA are not as technically skilled as their credentials would lead one to expect. The commentary so far has been mostly generic, so its unlikely that you are going to receive a meaningful answer to your question.   That is not meant to imply that they are not contributing something to the discussion, just that you might want to keep your expectations modest.
Some of these companies sell software that resides on hospital servers and some provide hosted services. But in either case, the hospitals privacy obligations remain the same and should be reflected in their contracts. There are privacy concerns about the sharing of electronic health records and security, but it's not just a technology issue.  I'm more concerned about the small health services providers who may not have the privacy and security staff that hospitals do to provide technical support and oversight.
Honestly something I didn't think about. I do not willfully engage in illegal activities but that doesn't mean I want everything I do or say in my spare time to read in a court of law or published in the new. Hopefully, this knowledge will allow my porn to remain safe and secure in my personal vault of shame. :p Thanks!
Our privacy transparency research in the IXmaps project suggests that generally speaking Canadian ISPs don't do a good job in protecting privacy when it comes to third party requests for personal information, or at least they don't give clear indications that they do.   We recently evaluated publicly posted privacy policies of 43 carriers against 10 criteria, four of which address your question: 2. A public commitment to inform users about all third party data requests. 3. Transparency about frequency of third party data requests and disclosures. 4. Transparency about conditions for third party data disclosures. 10. Open advocacy for user privacy rights.  Most carriers did poorly, especially on criteria 3 and 10.  Teksavvy stood out as offering the strongest protector of privacy.  For more details, see our 2014 Keeping Internet Users in the Know or in the Dark: Data privacy transparency of Canadian Internet carriers report at  http://ixmaps.ca/transparency-2014.php 
What can an individual reasonably do to protect from website privacy invasions?  I block and delete cookies, use noscript, block web beacons, run several virus detection programs and have active firewall.    I don't do facebook, twitter, snapchat, google+ or any social media other than reddit.  I never use craigslist or paypal or ebay.  I once frequently used TOR, but I'm leery of that nowadays.  What else should or could I be doing?
Freedom of the Press Foundation has a good set of resources, software tools and explanatory guide to practical encryption, mainly aimed at journalists.  https://freedom.press/encryption-works  
Encrypt all the things!   Education and awareness is a passion of mine, so feel free to ask me any of your questions, any time. If you're interested, you can scroll back years through my [PrivaSecTech blog](https://privasectech.com/the-blog/) which I use mostly to answer common questions I get in this regard and offer tech tips.  Knowing which tools to trust, and how much, is a challenge as there are so many out there. Using a browser like the [tor browser](https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser.html.en) helps for example, but also makes you stand out as someone who is making your browsing habits difficult if not impossible to read.   There are open source privacy alternatives for most popular private solutions. They're likely less popular, and don't guarantee privacy 100%, so you have to decide if it's worth it for you. Using services like Facebook, Google, or Skype for example, there's no debate that's easy for the US Government to get direct access to in a post Snowden world. Diaspora, [Startpage](https://www.startpage.com), and [Jitsi](https://jitsi.org/) you might consider as alternatives.  Using tor for browsing, or TextSecure for Android for instant messaging, you're now using tools that most of the information security and privacy community use.   For any tool you use, I would ask:   * Is it open source, as if you can't see the source code for yourself, why would you trust it? * If it's for communication of any kind, does it do end-to-end encryption (don't ever trust the server)  * Does it and offer forward secrecy and plausible deniability?   From a business perspective, I'm actively working on a list of best practices for non-profits and SMEs (drop me a message if you're interested), but I would start by asking if you're compliant with appropriate privacy laws for your jurisdiction (province, federal, foreign) and sector (retail, health etc).  
It sounds like you are doing most of the things that a person can do and still use the web. But that's what you can do as an individual. We also need changes at the cultural level and the political level.  So what else should you be doing? Be an evangelist for privacy and personal empowerment with your friends and neighbours. It sounds like you have some technical skills. Offer to help the people in your life take some basic steps to empower themselves. Even if its only to install one web browser add-on, that's progress.  Similarly, you can engage in civil society or politics. There are organizations that are active in this space. Support them. Talk to your provincial and federal representatives and let them know that this is an issue that you feel is important.
*"There is a fair bit of evidence to suggest that we are moving to an era of public private partnerships for surveillance and data interchange."*  Would you please provide some samples ? 
That's hard to answer without without knowing the context. For example, setting up a web server (LAMP stack) or mail server (postfix) is easy. Doing it securely, takes knowledge and experience. Some in-house servers I'd think are more secure, some less.  Does it comply with [30.1 of FIPPA](http://www.bclaws.ca/civix/document/LOC/complete/statreg/--%20F%20--/Freedom%20of%20Information%20and%20Protection%20of%20Privacy%20Act%20%5BRSBC%201996%5D%20c.%20165/00_Act/96165_03.xml) is the more popular question, I'll leave that for the lawyers. 
If Snowden would've been Canadian, would he have had a chance at a fair trial in Canada? Is there any Whistle blower protection laws for Canadians? Does Canada treat whistle blowers differently than the USA?
What are some examples of companies that have in fact resisted government demands? Thanks for doing this AMA, by the way.
Essentially, all of them -- including Teksavvy -- would hand over your information to the police without a warrant other than Eastlink and Bell Aliant. But that has changed since the [Spencer decision](https://scc-csc.lexum.com/scc-csc/scc-csc/en/item/14233/index.do). 
I think you're ahead of most! It's hard to answer without more details of what you're doing. For regular web surfing, using NoScript is a great step (if not the biggest everyone should be doing). Check out [EFF's Panoptoclick](https://panopticlick.eff.org/) and minimize how trackable you are.   For email, are your emails encrypted? Is your provider on foreign soil?  If you want to give me some examples of what you do online, I can try to provide more answers.    
[deleted]
In Canada, is it legal to record a police officer making an arrest or record your own interaction with the peace officer? Can they confiscate it? Is it legal to upload that video to youtube etc? 
[deleted]
I'd have to go back to my sources in the Snowden Archives for specific examples, but I can suggest that you take a look at Robert Scheer's new book, [They Know Everything About You](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21413857-they-know-everything-about-you)
As long as you are not interfering with the police, you are absolutely within your rights to record them: [Photographing and filming police in Canada](http://blog.privacylawyer.ca/2012/08/photographing-and-filming-police.html). They have no right to delete your images, but they can seize relevant evidence.
The editorial and the blog post both make a point of saying 'in public'. Does that include locations likes stores, malls, building lobbies etc?
In Canada? I can't comment on specifics. Court orders -- which I can neither confirm nor deny -- can provide that people involved can neither confirm nor deny anything about them. But take a look at transparency reports from some of the larger operators and see how many are not fully complied with. Also, take a look at [R. v. Rogers Communications Partnership, 2014 ONSC 3853] (https://www.canlii.org/en/on/onsc/doc/2014/2014onsc3853/2014onsc3853.html). Rogers and Telus deserve a standing ovation from the privacy community for taking this on.
Concerns about 'dirty tricks' and controversial undercover operations have proven to be justified in an increasing number of cases.  In Canada The Good (as we rather like to think of ourselves) we have a long history of mirroring the practices that we decry when we hear of them elsewhere. We have most certainly seen an array of deeply troubling practices like undercover police pretending to be demonstrators and trying to incite violence; we failed to get a promise from the 2010 Olympics Integrated Security Unit that they wouldn't try to have undercover officers take over the leadership and direct organizations they infiltrated for security intelligence -- whether they actually did or not, we don't know, but the fact that they thought this was legitimately in their tool box of tactics is ghastly. And whether C-51 retro-actively legitimizing things that are already happening in some fields, we may only find out later.  What is fully knowable now is that C-51 would give CSIS "kinetic powers" of "disruption" that will be almost entirely invisible and virtually unaccountable (post-hoc, partial, under-resourced and under-mandated review by SIRC, doesn't cut it).  
Any owner of private property can set conditions for being there, like "no photography". But I would argue that unless the police control the property, they can't set these conditions at the spur of the moment. The mall folks can say no photography, but the worst the police should be able to do is kick you out.
At age 56, I'm very slowly coming back from a severe brain injury, six years ago. It's exhausting and and debilitating, but in the absence of credible help I very much need to be certain my only real means of communication with both loved ones and with support or aid agencies is not putting them all at greater risk.   I believe this is a reasonable concern, given my effective powerlessness in both the choice of technologies that I can use or access, and the gaping absence of trust most people have in our primitive laws, or in those purporting to be their agents. At the same time, most of those with whom I must communicate are utterly dependent on technologies they can't begin to understand.   What advice would you give to protect myself from the insanity of imported US-style cyber-fuckery in this context?  Also, in a recent conversation with my bank's tech support, the poor guy said: "NOBODY trusts the government." Do you share his opinion?  Finally, because so many modern problems are the direct result of bad legal precepts (permitting armies of corporate lawyers and lobbyists to freeze legislative development, for example), are encrypted VPN connections to countries with more sensible laws a sensible option until our own legislators grow up and write a constitution and charter based on coherent ideals and on testable, provable assumptions? 
Perhaps a better question regarding outsourcing university email is, "Do your students get a choice to not providing their communications to a foreign company that is bound by the US PATRIOT ACT, and is on foreign soil so they have little repercussions if and/when it is sold, hacked, or made public?"  If you want to leave the present and think about the future when Microsoft is sold, like [Radioshack](http://boingboing.net/2015/03/25/bankrupt-radio-shack-will-sell.html), how valuable do you think those emails will be worth? 
According to the 2009 Vancouver Police Department policy the police may only seize cameras in instances where there is an arrest, or a warrant permitting seizure, or the office has a reasonable concern, grounded in evidence, that the person taking the pictures or video may not be locatable or will destroy the evidence.  Unfortunately, this reasonably clear criteria is muddied by the additional legal authority for seizures with consent.  Consent seizures, like consent searches are powers that are:very easy for the police to exploit.    Consent tends to be neither informed or truly voluntary, given that people most often do not know their rights in such circumstances. And, even if they do, such rights are almost always difficult to exercise given the power differential in citizen-police interactions.  In our manual for Legal Observers during the Olympics, we said, if you have a video or still camera and the police believe your camera contains evidence of a crime, the police can seize it if they cannot identify you for the purposes of issuing you a warrant at a later date and you will not assure them you will not delete the contents.  If you have a camera and the police want it, identify yourself, including your address, to the police.  Tell the police that the recordings will be preserved and will be made available to the police in the event they obtain a warrant.  
I can't think of a scenario in which it wouldn't be legal to upload such a video to Youtube.  
It's not clear what you're asking, but intelligence is based off metadata, which is your network of who you communicate with. If you use something like Google addressbook for your contacts and add me to your Android phone for example, you're volunteering my personal information to Google.  Just like if you use Google apps, and email someone, you're adding them to the network. If someone in your network is a terrorism suspect, or just a foreigner in general, you now become a suspect. In fact, even if you're not a terrorism suspect or foreign, it seems that Canadian intelligence is arguing that this was not targetted, so not an issue.   Having your cell phone on and being near a suspected terrorist also makes you a suspect in such cases. 
Is there any specific provision though that you think should be struck?  As one of your colleagues said, its an omninus bill so hard to examine - but what are you telling friends, people at dinner parties, etc?
@cqwww you have some tech skill, so you can see that fighting deep learning with manual tools is a losing effort. Hopefully, you can reach the other panel participants and encourage them to use whatever influence they have to do something constructive
Thank you. I apologize for lack of clarity.   1. What advice would you give to protect myself from the insanity of imported US-style cyber-fuckery in the context of severe cognitive limitations?  2. Do you share the tech-predominant opinion that governments can't be trusted? 3. Do encrypted VPNs to "safe" countries help to mitigate against untrustable government snooping?
As most of my friends are aware, it's not an evidence based law. It's a law being passed which Canadians overwhelmingly don't agree with.   If it was up to me, I would ask, do you have one piece of evidence that one specific provision will make Canada safer? Because it seems mostly about power and control. The US in the process of undoing many their draconian laws because 14 years has shown they're not successful or cost effective, and in Canada we're still pushing in the non-democratic direction. I would argue our existing laws are sufficient.   I personally would prefer that laws were drafted that the majority of Canadians agree with, and that are evidence based. It would be interesting to see what the Department of Justice recommendations are on Bills like C-51 to government, as I speculate even their lawyers recommend against these bills to the government and are passed anyway. 
I think its a good answer to WHY you are opposed, but most Canadians are unaware of the WHAT.  Is it increased wire tapping?  No warrants needed?  What are the specifics of the law that are causing people to demonstrate and have you here today?
The law that Snowden has been charged under does not allow him to mount a defense using the public interest as a defense. It's not clear to me, especially since I'm not a lawyer, what law would be used to charge a Canadian Snowden. And it's the law under which he would be charged that would determine if a fair trail is possible. Given the tenor of C-51 it seems to me unlikley.
[deleted]
There are many things wrong with the Bill, but for me the part that deals with unrestricted information sharing is the most problematic and the second most troubling is the part that makes CSIS "kinetic" and allows for disruption and purports to allow for overriding a Charter right with a warrant.
[deleted]
Thanks, very helpful! Any link you could share on those points for people to dig further?  Would love to share on the blog of the documentary we're doing with the NFB Do Not Track donottrack-doc.com
[deleted]
As a lawyer, I'll take this up: Section 30.1 is a ham-handed provision of FIPPA. It is a general, categorical restriction on allowing personal information to be stored outside of Canada and accessed from outside of Canada without any nuance about the sensitivity of the data or the risk to the data. It -- and its analogue in Nova Scotia -- mean that some of the leading edge educational tools are not available to students and educators in those provinces, to use but one example. The feds actually got this right when they implemented a policy that requires a careful examination of the data and the real risk to the data. 
I don't feel it's productive to pick a WHAT in the bill, I oppose the bill itself.    For example, if I say I'm going to torture you in a jail cell, and give you water, and electric shocks, and sick dogs on you, it doesn't make sense to argue that the electric shocks are what I have an issue with but water is OK. I oppose the Bill. Arguing against electric shocks in my example, if that provision was removed, still ends up with torture and dogs in a jail cell.   I don't support torture, and I don't support undemocratic, evidence-free bills that the majority of Canadians oppose, like C-51. 
[deleted]
In my experience, technology being used in the US is also being used in Canada. This is corroborated -- albeit obliquely -- by the RCMP saying that [commenting on the use of IMSI catchers in Canada would compromise their ability to conduct criminal investigations.](http://www.theglobeandmail.com/technology/digital-culture/the-covert-cellphone-tracking-tech-the-rcmp-and-csis-wont-talk-about/article20579947/)
It seems unusual to think 'getting it right' means that all post-secondary students in Canada could have no choice but to provide their communications to a foreign company/government, which could be used against them in the future with little to no recourse.
Our laws are around "personally identifiable information" or PII. If the passive data contains that, it's bound by our laws.   The lack of awareness by organizations likely means they are not complying with privacy laws. When you're aware of these privacy violations, you can file a complaint with the privacy commissioner. Realistically it will take the commissioner using a heavier hand than they do now for companies to pay attention.   I equate privacy in Canada to drinking and driving, while the punishment can be severe if you're caught, the odds of you being caught and audited are very unlikely. As a result, many/most companies choose to ignore the law unofficially and unfortunately. 
For storage/data at rest, I personally encrypt my disk, use encrypted directories/folder/filesystems (LUKS/dm-crypt/ecryptfs) on top of that, and use [GnuPG](https://www.gnupg.org/) for email and file encryption. Unfortunately these are not all easy to use and take some technical training/knowledge to implement.   I choose them as they're open source, free, and have a history. I'm aware that all of these things don't make them fool proof, for example OpenSSL over the last year. It's a model I hope we all support philosophically and financially, as the more encryption tools are publicly audited by 3rd parties, the better for everyone.   I have clients that won't touch open source, and I have clients that will only touch open source, and have heard the same from others even this week, so I'm aware of the pros and cons of both. 
1. If a company or government feels they are going to benefit in obtaining your data, they're not motivated to protect those with cognitive limitations.   2. I trust that data in any government will be used, abused, accessed, stolen, and shared.   3. Is the data from the VPN endpoint in that "safe" country compromised by the untrustable government you're trying to avoid, or any point between there and your online destination?   
"Getting it right" is to look at the context and the information at issue, and then assessing the risk.   There are some elementary school math programs that are world-leaders, but can't be used by students in Nova Scotia and British Columbia because ... why? Are you going to be stopped at the border because you were too slow in your grade four fractions? The BC law simply says it is illegal to use a foreign system that would know that Timmy got 7/10 on his math quiz.   A very large portion of university students and faculty forward their official university e-mail to a Gmail/Hotmail/Yahoo address. Don't you think the hundreds of thousands of dollars spent annually to maintain university mail servers would be better spent in the classroom, if free and more secure mail services were available elsewhere (even if hosted outside of Canada)?
In addition to the other answer: I checked with my firm's IT department to make sure that we use StartTLS with our e-mail system. If the recipient e-mail system will accept encryption, the messages will be sent over the internet encrypted. This takes care of the "postcard" problem with e-mail. 
How much protection do VPNs provide against breaches of privacy? Does it matter a) where the VPN company is based, b) the country from which my IP is being spoofed? 
The Security of Information Act is very draconian, but I would think that EVERY Canadian law would consider, in the Charter challenge, whether speech in the public interest is unjustifiably restricted. But at the same time, Canadian courts give a lot of deference to government arguments about national security.
That's a very interesting question. Most advanced democracies have extremely intrusive national security laws, and most have few checks and balances. I've been speaking out about the Anti-terrorism Act, 2001 for years, but few people are aware that we have a secret court that hears applications in a bunker in Ottawa for incredibly intrusive orders. That Act amended the National Defence Act to allow CSE to tap the internet at the border and outside of Canada, just as the NSA is allowed to at the US border and outside the US. (Draw that venn diagram, and it includes the entire internet. Then bolt on the other Five Eyes partners.)   The UK, France, Germany and Italy have less regard for privacy if the government plays the national security card.   I find it all very troubling.
Where the company is based definitely matters. For example, if it's on US soil, it's bound by the US PATRIOT ACT, so they may have received a [National Security Letter (red letter)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_security_letter) which demanded your information under gag order. If you're picking a VPN based on privacy, knowing the laws in that country in this area is important.  I use a couple Canadian VPNs for some web activity as well. That means websites I go to through that VPN think I'm visiting from the local area/city where the VPN is, as opposed to using my ISP which gives away my specific location. Tor does any even better job than VPNs for this.  If you're using VPNs, you also want to make sure you have [WebRTC turned off](https://www.surfeasy.com/webrtc/). 
I am a tech consultant and my laptop and digital devices contain sensitive information such a security keys and client information that I am normally, contractually not able to disclose.  Is CBSA or DHS able to demand such of me?
[deleted]
&gt;Our laws are around "personally identifiable information" or PII. If the passive data contains that, it's bound by our laws.   I am extremely surprised to see you make this error. Canadian privacy law, *[PIPEDA](http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/P-8.6/FullText.html)*, is based on  **personal information**, not the much more narrow, US-based concept of personally identifiable information:  &gt;    personal information means information about an identifiable individual, but does not include the name, title or business address or telephone number of an employee of an organization.  The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada has also opined on the difference:  &gt;PIPEDA does not contain any definition for personally identifiable information, non-identifying information or confidential information. The term personally identifiable information is one that is used in other jurisdictions and typically refers to a narrow set of information that can be used to uniquely identify an individual. Examples include an individual's name, address, national identification number or driver's licence number. By contrast, the concept of personal information as set out in PIPEDA has been interpreted by the courts and the OPC to apply more broadly.  Personally identifiable information is used as a justification by privacy-infringing organizations in the US (e.g. marketers) that their operations are legitimate, because a particular individual supposedly can't be identified from the information they collect (which is suspect at best).   I'm sure you know this. Not sure why you made that mistake.
Thank you for the important and accurate correction. 
A bit late, but thanks for the reply!
