[deleted]
Does Google publish a list of core company values? If so, how does your work align with those values?
I'm writing my senior paper on this issue. It would mean a lot to me if you could take the time to answer a few of my questions here.  First: Both, what do you think about Edward Snowden's actions?  Second: As human beings, how do you feel about bulk collection?  Third: As Google employees, what do you think the public's opinion of Google is on this issue? (Due to the massive amounts of data that people may have stored with Google)  Edit: if I could possibly get an interview with one of you at a later time or date, that would be wonderful. Thank you for your time.
[deleted]
Do you believe the changes made to the FISA Court by the current version of USA Freedom are sufficient to ensure that the Intelligence Community is unable to establish new secret legal precedents that justify their actions as they have in the past? And do you feel that the proposed amicus curiae will actually have a meaningful roll in the FISC decision making process, in which the civil rights of the American public will actually be respected? 
What is AUA?
[deleted]
Hi,  Google has repeatedly refused to acknowledge whether or not it is capable of wiretapping Hangouts for government agencies. In contrast, Apple's FaceTime product uses end-to-end encryption and the company says it is not able to wiretap this service.  Why has Google refused to be transparent about its ability to provide wiretaps for Hangouts? Given Google's rather impressive track record regarding surveillance transparency, the total secrecy regarding the company's surveillance capabilities for this product is quite unusual.
I feel like I've read about 20 different versions of what the government is actually doing around data collection, programs like PRISM, and how involved companies like Google are. In your opinion, what's been the most accurate source of information around these topics? Is it John Oliver? I'm guessing John Oliver.  
What amount of surveillance do you see as being a good balance between national security and personal rights? 
[deleted]
(1) Too much of the debate around Snowden has focused on whether hes a hero or traitor.  Its fair to say that we would not be having this debate without Snowdens disclosures.  Its a debate that is long overdue, particularly because the public didnt know many of the underlying facts.  (2) Im uncomfortable with the idea that the government should have the power to seize any communications metadata under the theory that it may be relevant at some future point for terrorism-related investigations.  I worry that allowing current bulk collection programs to remain in place invites even more aggressive assertions of power in the future.  (3) I think there are some who are concerned about Googles involvement with surveillance programs that have been disclosed as a result of the Snowden revelations.  But no government agency has direct access to our systems and we have often pushed back on government demand that are overbroad or otherwise dont satisfy legal requirements.
Since 2008 (?) Google's Privacy Policy has said some variant of (https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/465?hl=en) "What happens to your searches and browsing activity when it's deleted? When you delete items from your Web &amp; App Activity, they are no longer associated with your Google Account. However, Google may store activity separately to prevent spam and abuse and to improve our services."  So in other words, when someone deletes stuff from their search history, they are fooling themselves? Google still keeps a copy somewhere? How long? Is it *technically" possible to re-link to a user? Has Google ever re-linked in response to a LEA request? Has Google explained all this to EU regulators?
Thanks for your question! You can see our company mission here (https://www.google.com/intl/en/about/) and for this conversation about surveillance reform, you might be particularly interested in our Transparency Report. In 2010, Google launched the Transparency Report (http://www.google.com/transparencyreport), one of the first of its kind. Our goal was to show how laws and policies around the world impact users. Since 2010, weve expanded the report to include a whole host of data, including information about copyright removals, government requests for content removals, and even data about malware and unsafe websites.  Were also founding members of the Global Network Initiative (https://www.globalnetworkinitiative.org/), which has published human rights principles that Google has adopted as well.
Google was hacked in 2009 by the Chinese government. Although Google revealed in 2010 that it had been hacked, it was not until 2013 that the [Washington Post revealed](http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/chinese-hackers-who-breached-google-gained-access-to-sensitive-data-us-officials-say/2013/05/20/51330428-be34-11e2-89c9-3be8095fe767_story.html) that Google's law enforcement surveillance team had been hacked.  Google has never publicly confirmed that its surveillance team were hacked. At a time when US government officials are asking companies to weaken the security of their products to make surveillance easier, the fact that Google, a company that spends more on information security than most, could not protect itself from a sophisticated nation state, seems quite relevant to the debate.  Richard, you supervised the investigation of this hack. Can you confirm that Google's surveillance team was hacked? Has Google's surveillance team or its surveillance systems been compromised since? 
Thats a good question.   As background, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) addresses requests by the intelligence community to conduct surveillance under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Its not like a normal civil court, where parties can argue against each other in front of a judge. Rather, the government appears in front of the judges to make the request for surveillance. Because its a non-adversarial process, it doesn't necessarily have all the points of view in front of it.  So, we think that adding another voice to the FISA Court is important. They can present the court with a larger picture and help ensure that civil liberties are respected.
https://firstlook.org/theintercept/
Google is doing a lot of long term things for international philanthropic good, like Deepmind and Project Loon and Calico. Do you face any government pressure on those issues?
Hi Google, I never thought I would get to meet you in person. Firstly thank you for doing this AMA. As one of the largest platforms for congregators of global information across the planet, collecting extraordinary amounts of detail about individual personal lives-- their thoughts, opinions, search history, what they are buying/selling, their religious beliefs, what bank they use, even where people are located on the planet-- Do you feel at odds when countries such as the U.S. abuse their relationship for whatever purpose of securing their dominance as a world superpower? Do you truly support internet neutrality whereby in an ideal world where nobody should be allowed to access/store this information, neither party no matter what the reason should initiate a war on information, even if this means the loss of innocent lives? Finally, in a world where knowledge is king, where many grey areas of surveillance would likely still exist, would Google ever implement a truly anonymous search engine or platform effectively achieving true net neutrality? 
The Intelligence Community does not have the luxury of mistakes and so it's understandable that they'd seek broader authority in order to serve national security interests.    We arguably can have much, much better security, but it would come at a significant cost to privacy.  The Fourth Amendment says a lot about our values and that should be our guidepost in thinking about the wisdom of new forms of surveillance.  I think the answer has less to do with "balance" and more to to do with "values".  
Does FaceTime do e2e for sessions between more than two people? (I don't think it works like that.) Whereas Hangouts is a multiparty tool, that necessarily has to have heavy coordination in the middle (in order to know who to display as "talking" and to create smaller thumbnail-sized feeds to send off to peers). So I wonder if this is comparing something where we know we can do e2e well (FaceTime with a point-to-point connection) to something where it seems a bit challenging to do e2e at all (e.g., like mpOTR for chat, but video).  (If there are e2e multiparty video tools, I'd love to know!)
[deleted]
Does Google accept that existing FISA 702 ("all facilities and assistance..in secret") can coerce backdoors in encryption software/services provided to non-Americans outside US territory, including any type of public Cloud ("Remote computing services")?
Is the FISC the only *ex parte* court in the United States federal judiciary system? How can we justify a court that operates outside the traditional adversarial process set out by the 5th Amendment? 
Ask us anything.
Does Google receive law enforcement requests for summary statistical information that might be relevant to crime-prevention?  If so, what kind of requests? And how do you respond?
Rick, what do you guys think about an independent technical advocate at the FISC? (I'm not sure if that's in USAF.) Are there any other perspectives that you might think the FISC could use or might that be the most acute need for our secret court?
What does Google still do to ensure in stands by its mission statement, "don't be evil."?
Since Google is working to make end-to-end encryption widely usable by developing the end-to-end extension for Chrome, what push back do you expect to face from the US government? 
[deleted]
[deleted]
&gt; (3) I think there are some who are concerned about Googles involvement with surveillance programs that have been disclosed as a result of the Snowden revelations. But no government agency has direct access to our systems and we have often pushed back on government demand that are overbroad or otherwise dont satisfy legal requirements.   Google's business model depends on collecting a troubling amount of data in the first place. Why should I trust Google ?
&gt; But no government agency has direct access to our systems  ...that you are aware of. They were happy to tap unencrypted data between your data centers without your knowledge.  The important point here is that if Google didn't maintain user data *because it is profitable for them to do so*, the government wouldn't have data to collect off your servers.  Edit: Also the typical weasel words about *direct* access to our systems.
Than Cthulhu? Very hard to beat an Elder One...
Well, John Oliver certainly helped to focus this on what really matters.  Joking aside, I think its hard to identify a single source of information thats been most accurate.  Some of the decisions that have been published from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) have been particularly useful in understanding the history and justification of various surveillance programs.  Those decisions have also underscored the importance of creating transparency, oversight, and accountability mechanisms to ensure surveillance programs are authorized by surveillance laws.  That was underscored by yesterdays decision by the Second Circuit, which held that the bulk telephony metadata program was not authorized by Section 215.  
How does the current debate about Section 215 impact the majority of Google's users, who are living outside of the United States but get significantly lower legal protections of their data under US law?  What is Google doing to ensure its users outside of the US will get better protections of their private data and communications under US law, in particular under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act? 
The Tibetan government in exile uses Google Apps for its email (tibet.net). By entrusting its emails to a US tech company, the Tibetans have made it really easy for the US government to spy on their communications.  The emails of the Tibetan government are clearly related to a "foreign power" under FISA. This kind of surveillance is exactly what FISA was intended to permit. On the other hand, helping the NSA to read the Dalai Lama's emails doesn't seem very Googly.  Can you confirm that you have received a directive under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act to turn the emails of the Tibetan government in exile over to the FBI/NSA? What do you think the average Google engineer would think if they knew about this.    
WebRTC is P2P and end-to-end, and I believe it allows video-conferences. The only thing you need is a "signal" server between them, but it doesn't handle the encryption.
What are your thoughts on a non-American (I'm Canadian, for example) trusting their personally identifiable information with your company, by using your services?   For example, if you receive a [National Security Letter (red letter)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_security_letter) with a gag order, my PII is now compromised, and I'll never ever know about it.   Also, how can I be sure every time you're hacked, that you will a) know about it and b) disclose to me it happened.   Most importantly, how can I know the information you sell/use for advertising can't be used to De-anonymize and identify me? 
If I delete emails, files from Drive, or even close my account, does Google *really* delete that data? I know a company of Google's size has many many backups all around the world and it takes some time for them to synchronize, but I want to know if Google keeps offline backups that are never recycled or purged.
How does a Google Privacy Policy Counsel reconcile the notion of demanding user privacy from the government, but not from other possible beneficiaries of user data, including Google itself?   Shouldn't user privacy mean that user's data is truly private instead of private except for the company where the data is stored?
There are legal authorities that allow the government to wiretap communications.  Google was the first company to disclose the number of wiretap orders it receives issued in criminal investigations.  (There were a total of 7 wiretap orders in the first half of 2014, covering 9 accounts, for example - http://www.google.com/transparencyreport/userdatarequests/US/).  We also report requests made under national security authorities to the extent we are allowed by law.  We want to be able to be much more granular about the number and nature of these demands, and think thats important for people who use Google, policymakers and the public.  Hangouts are encrypted in transit (https://support.google.com/hangouts/answer/6046115), and were continuing to extend and strengthen encryption across more services
Considering you are by far the most used search engine, are you worried about/ do you believe the government is going to focus on google more?  If so I find if hard to believe there's nothing you could do about it or would something more than legal terms stop you?
Does this mean you guys have done away with the "Don't be evil" slogan?
**crickets**
We can have both national security and individual rights.  In fact, our nation is built on recognition that the rights of individuals is paramount.  To relinquish those is to give up what makes our country special.  Governments need to keep people safe, but there is no need to give up what is precious to us. Thats why we believe that improved mechanisms for oversight, transparency, and accountability are key. Companies like Google should be able to notify users about requests; government agencies should go through appropriate legal avenues to obtain information.
^^ Does Google support the building of backdoors into their services for the Intelligence Community?   How do you determine which countries have access to the "Surveillance Portal"? ... for lack of a better term.  Do the Chinese, Iran, &amp; Russia have access to the same systems for "Surveillance Requests"? How do you determine which countries get access for what kind of requests?
HI! I'm a lifer, a "nexus guy", and I've been waiting for a thread like this for ages.   I've been banned from many Google Services for over a year for violating a TOS clause that wasn't in place at the time, but that conflicted with Wallet's TOS thereafter. This has left me heartbroken since, and I've fought it for hundreds of house, with written appeals, etc.   There have been MANY similar posts here that go unanswered, and users have no avenue for support for violating these terms. Wallet's teams that deal with these things aren't consumer facing, and it's above the call center's authority.   Facing what seems to be a lifetime ban is incredibly intense, and while it's slightly on topic, the policy office is the next place to turn. Users like me are looking for someone to speak with to try to resolve these issues in time. Can I get in touch with someone in your office about these issues?    See this thread: https://www.reddit.com/r/google/comments/2zfjm9/dear_google_employees_with_the_blocked_wallet/
A number of government officials have already expressed concerns about the deployment and use of end-to-end encryption.  The broader context here is security, not surveillance.  Our efforts to deploy encryption throughout our services precedes the Snowden revelations.  Identity theft has been the top consumer complaint to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) for fifteen years in a row.  Given the broad universe of threats to user security, deploying stronger and more effective forms of encryption is the right thing to do.  It is also consistent with the advice of many regulatory agencies, including the FTC and FBI, which have recommended the deployment and use of encryption.
&gt; When you delete items from your Web &amp; App Activity, they are no longer associated with your Google Account.  I can't answer definitively, but what this likely means is that this information is no longer viewable by you, but still exists in a form where it could very easily be re-associated to you via forensic methods.
 &gt;Hangouts are encrypted in transit (https://support.google.com/hangouts/answer/6046115), and were continuing to extend and strengthen encryption across more services  For non-technical readers, this means that Hangouts are only encrypted on their way between your computer and Google's servers. Once they arrive at Google's end,  Google has full access. In short, this is confirmation Google **can** wiretap Hangouts.
I'm getting tired of certain communities saying that Google doesn't care about user privacy. How do you counter that Google does indeed put privacy first and foremost?
 &gt;Why should I trust Google ?  Because Google's business model depends on making sure no one else gets access to that data.
On a broader international scale, Australia just passed a law for the collection of mass metadata in the name of "national security". Does Google believe these kinds of laws are simply cosmetic changes for what Governments are already doing behind the scenes? Or does Google have some form of rigorous screening process to determine the legality for requests for bulk information? Do you see Australia following suit with the U.S. in regards to the recent changes to the Patriot Act? Do you believe these landmark changes will domino the world's governments in stopping mass surveillance, or is this simply a conformity to public opinion?
&gt;Does this mean you guys have done away with the "Don't be evil" slogan?  That's an internal motto, not a public slogan.
[deleted]
Your corporate slogan is "Don't be Evil".  Considering the role Google plays in the modern cryptopticon, and how thoroughly you've assisted in the systematic dismantling of civil liberties on the internet, do you have any intentions of changing your slogan to something less ironic?
I'm a privacy and technology researcher in psychology, and I'm wondering whether Google Hangouts are ever HIPAA/HITECH compliant? How should psychologists, tasked with protecting clients' privacy, use Google's services? Are there any concerns they should know about?
Google's current Code of Conduct includes:  &gt; Dont be evil. Googlers generally apply those words to how we serve our users. But Dont be evil is much more than that. Yes, its about providing our users unbiased access to information, focusing on their needs and giving them the best products and services that we can. But its also about doing the right thing more generally  following the law, acting honorably and treating each other with respect.   &gt;The Google Code of Conduct is one of the ways we put Dont be evil into practice. Its built around the recognition that everything we do in connection with our work at Google will be, and should be, measured against the highest possible standards of ethical business conduct. We set the bar that high for practical as well as aspirational reasons: Our commitment to the highest standards helps us hire great people, build great products, and attract loyal users. Trust and mutual respect among employees and users are the foundation of our success, and they are something we need to earn every day."  Source: http://investor.google.com/corporate/code-of-conduct.html
Ah, there it is. Thanks.
*"Sometimes silence is the strongest answer one can give, especially when it has to do with Google"*  - Mahatma Gandhi
&gt; Once they arrive at Google's end, Google has full access.  Of course they do. How else would they transcribe your conversations in order to determine your social behaviors in order to sell ads to you?   More data! *nom nom*
no, it only depends on their competitors not getting access to that data. If they can build a predictive model of your life, it's actually better for them, to better sell you to advertisers.
I don't recall ever receiving a request that fits this description.  The authorities that permit law enforcement to submit legal process generally require that the process be relevant to an ongoing criminal investigation.  For example, criminal subpoenas are usually tied to an open grand jury investigation, court orders under 2703(d) require that the records be relevant and material to an ongoing criminal investigation, and search warrants require probable cause to believe that evidence or instrumentalities of a crime will be found at the place to be searched.
In what way is the Freedom Act preferable to simply letting the provisions of the Patriot act expire in a few weeks?
Translation: We'll happily backdoor our encryption for the government, we just don't want the "bad guys" at it.
&gt; Most importantly, how can I know the information you sell/use for advertising can't be used to De-anonymize and identify me?  You can never know this. Even without legal PII, it's pretty well known that very little information is needed to identify someone online. For someone who is active on the internet, the information sent from your browser (IP address, information about your computer, etc) and your browser history is likely more than enough to make a very good guess at who you are.  Just because Google doesn't sell your name and phone number doesn't mean that others out there haven't compiled a portfolio on you, the various marketing strata you belong to, your buying habits, etc.
We don't build backdoors into our services. We do not have a "surveillance portal."
We don't build backdoors into our services.
Please be careful not to use specific language in quotes. Your question is important, but legal counsels can deny these questions easily because the specific title is not being used.  My reasoning: [http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2014/01/27/darrell-issa-james-clapper-lied-to-congress-about-nsa-and-should-be-fired/](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2014/01/27/darrell-issa-james-clapper-lied-to-congress-about-nsa-and-should-be-fired/)
[deleted]
We were one of the first companies to be public about such a hack. In the past companies were, understandably, hesitant to talk about hacks in public.  Since then, other companies have followed our lead in letting the public know of the cyberthreats they face. We think that security overall has benefited from this. There have been a lot of myths about the attack but we stand by our description of it: [http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2010/01/new-approach-to-china.html]. It also certainly led us to significantly increase security efforts across the board. 
&gt;no, it only depends on their competitors not getting access to that data. If they can build a predictive model of your life, it's actually better for them, to better sell you to advertisers.  Exactly. They want to keep the information to themselves, and use it to sell ad space better. The moment someone else has the data, it is no longer an advantage for Google.
But do you sometimes leave the door open for your friends and neighbors?  *wink wink nudge nudge*
Sorry to hear that. I'll see what we can do. Send me a private message.
[deleted]
No. Googles view is that, although the law requires companies to provide reasonable assistance in complying with a demand made under section 702, 702 cannot be used to force Google to change the fundamental nature of a service, including by undermining the security of that service. The security encryption provides is fundamental to our services and the government could not force us to change that by weakening or introducing a vulnerability into our encryption. We would fiercely fight any effort by the government to use 702 to force us to do that. 
There are essentially three options on the table right now: (1) a straight reauthorization of Section 215; (2) allowing Section 215 to expire; or (3) reforming Section 215 and other surveillance authorities under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and elsewhere.  The USA Freedom Act prevents bulk collection not only under Section 215, but also under another FISA authority that was used to collect Internet metadata in bulk.  It would additionally prevent bulk collection of communications metadata under other National Security Letter (NSL) authorities.  We support this bill and believe it offers a rare opportunity to update FISA in a way that appreciably improves privacy protections.  It is not a perfect bill, but it is a significant first step toward broader surveillance reforms that deserve further consideration.  Allowing Section 215 to expire wouldn't address changes to other legal authorities that have been or could be used to undertake bulk collection.  And there are some in Congress who continue to push for straight reauthorization.  That is a real possibility.
google can certainly afford more lobbying money -- what are the internal discussions behind why they are not spending more?
Google visited the White House once a week and spent more on lobbying than Exxon Mobil. http://on.wsj.com/1FTYBAq  Why?
Do you believe that private sector actors have a responsibility to promote human rights, and specifically freedom of expression, online? Is there a need to balance this against the pursuit of profit?
Since it's becoming increasingly difficult for us as individual US citizens to make our voices heard to Congress on these issues, in what ways are Google working to fight the government's mass surveillance and bulk data collection?
http://www.google.com/about/company/philosophy/  see number 6
You don't need to build anything, just hand over your SSL privkeys.
I liked how 'in transit' phrase can almost invariably miss out to people who don't know the meaning. And the support answer states  *When you message or talk with someone on Hangouts, your information will be encrypted so that its secure. This includes your Hangouts conversations and video calls on a web browser, on the Hangouts Android and iOS apps, and in meetings through Chromebox for Meetings.*  Totally oblivious to 'in transit' phrase there.
The only question I have...  How can I fully opt out of having any of my data/information harvested/stored/sold/utilized by your company?  I want nothing to do with your services, but it seems that your service wants everything to do with me regardless.  This is a huge privacy issue and it feed directly in to government surveillance.  
I can answer this.   The exact reasons for this policy are visible outside Google.  Imagine 3000 people all search for "cats" on the same day.  [Google Trends](http://www.google.com/trends) will show a spike in the popularity of that search query.  Now imagine that all 3000 of those people clicked "delete" on their search history.  The trendline on Google Trends won't change.   Thats because the count of how often a search is done isn't associated with your account.   Good luck taking the "3000 people searched for cats" and linking it back to the exact correct 3000 people...    It can't be done - the informations gone.   But the fact *someone* did that search still exists.    Nearly all web services do this (ie. keep all kinds of statistics and counters about what their users do), but most don't even think to mention it.   Merely the fact the CEO mentions on the official blog that "We have 1 million users, and 37% of them use our product every day!" would count as anonymous use of your (potentially private) data.
Lets reword this a bit then... How does Google process and evaluate lawful orders from government entities? Does google accept surveillance requests from other governments outside the United States for US Persons data? 
Great question.  It's an important issue and it's not lost upon us.  The primary reason we're debating Section 215 right now is that it sunsets on June 1, 2015.  Section 702 does not expire until the end of 2017.  The Snowden revelations have laid bare many shortcomings of U.S. privacy and surveillance laws, particularly as they apply to non-U.S. persons.  There are some interim steps that we can take (see http://www.ccianet.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/Joint-Letter-re-Judicial-Redress-Act-042815.pdf) to help create a framework whereby users have comparable privacy protections regardless of where they reside.  As the debate shifts to Section 702 and other authorities that more directly implicate the rights of non-U.S. persons, we will continue to be engaged.   
You've talked a lot about the U.S. government, but what about countries like Turkey, which have very oppressive regimes with regards to online communication. In that country, they're throwing people in jail for tweeting insults about the prime minister. If the privacy protections are nearly non-existent in a country, and its governmnt threatens to censor your service entirely unless you comply with every request, what's your move? I understand my question is broad and hypothetical and warrants a generalized response. 
It is Googles position that before we can be compelled to disclose a users Web History, the government must obtain a search warrant.  We review each warrant carefully for validity and seek to narrow the request if it is overbroad.  It is our strong preference to give notice to our user when we cansometimes the government obtains a court order preventing us from giving notice. If the legal process is valid, we produce only data within the scope of the warrant to the extent the data is retrievable from the users account. See http://www.google.com/transparencyreport/userdatarequests/legalprocess/#if_you_receive
Yeah, sorry.  You and the NSA got caught illegally surveilling the public, and now you are promoting a bill to try to make it legal?  Good luck getting that stain out of Google's reputation.  
Yes, they do.  And all the software development that goes into doing those deletions is really quite hard.   Imagine you click "delete" on an email, but one of the computers that email happens to be backed up on is faulty, or being maintained right now, disconnected, or going out of service.  Now a team might have to be dispatched to [destroy that hard drive](https://youtu.be/wNyFhZTSnPg?t=3m31s) just to ensure they don't violate their own privacy policy.  Merely writing the software to keep track of every backup around the world, know exactly which parts of which backups need erasing, and when exactly they have to be erased by, and never miss a single deadline when there are billions of things being deleted every day is very tricky.  When you realise that that software in itself is many person-lifetimes of work, you realise how important it is to them.
this doesn't answer my questions: - How long? - Is it *technically" possible to re-link to a user?  - Has Google ever re-linked in response to a LEA request?  - Has Google explained all this to EU regulators?  
How pissed would we be by what you're not allowed to tell us? 
It is widely reported that NSA/CIA high ranking officials and Google CEO and such are in first name terms. Jared Cohen is even head of a thinktank inside Google. Cohen was the one to ask twitter to stop their scheduled maintenance for fear over missing the failed 'Iranian twitter revolution'. How do you intend to assuage the fear that Google doesn't influence and use political forces?  Quoting from Evgeny Morozov's book 'The Net Delusion: How Not To Liberate The World' (page no: 236 - 237)  *...Keyhole, the predecessor to Google Earth, which Google bought in 2005, was funded through In-Q-Tel, which is the CIA's for-profit investment arm. That Google Earth is somehow a CIA-funded vehicle for destroying the world is a recurring theme in rare comments given by those working in security agencies of other countries. Lt. Gen. Leonid Sazhin of the Russian Federal Security Service was not just speaking for Russia when he expressed his frustration in 2005: "Terrorists don't need to reconnoitre their target. Now an American company is working for them."*  Let's assume that Patriot Act is overthrown or becomes less invading. Then also how Google, the data behemoth of the world, will not meddle into political arena, for its own profit and growth? 
You can opt out fully by not using the service. Google depends on ad revenue, so that question is like asking Apple "How do I get an iPhone without paying any money to anyone at any point?" Remember, if you're not paying for the product, you *are* the product.  Perfect or not, that's the reality.
&gt;http://www.google.com/about/company/philosophy/  &gt;see number 6  That's not a list of slogans.  Google doesn't have an official slogan 
Very good point. I tried to be a little bit more generic with a follow up question. I'm glad they're attempting to be transparent with this AUA, we'll see if they answer.
It seems like the only end to this debate would be the adoption of an open communication protocol with end-to-end encryption that replaces our current calling/texting methods.  For something like this to work you would need iChat/Skype/WhatsApp/etc. to join you in working on a standard. Would such a thing be feasible to do?  Have you tried reaching out to other companies to start something like this?  
Under what circumstances can Google access contents of a personal or business Gmail account? I've read the privacy policy many times and my read allows Google to read personal or business emails for any reason whatsoever.
Just please add end-to-end encryption to Hangouts already. Strong protocols (TextSecure, OTR, ZRTP, etc) are already out there. You just need to implement them. If that means you'd have to kill some features to do it (such as Google+ integration which nobody likes anyway, or SMS integration, which also pisses people off) then so be it!  Whatsapp is doing it - so why can't you?
So you can spell the names of *other* people? Interesting. 
[deleted]
&gt; But no government agency has direct access to our systems and we have often pushed back on government demand that are overbroad or otherwise dont satisfy legal requirements.  According to an appellate court, [the requests themselves don't "satisfy legal requirements."](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/08/us/nsa-phone-records-collection-ruled-illegal-by-appeals-court.html?_r=0) I find assurances like this very hollow: the laws are written and interpreted so broadly that almost anything can be claimed to "satisfy legal requirements" by SOMEONE, and because these claims are often secret, they don't get judicial review.   Can you explain in layman's terms what sorts of requests are "overbroad" and how **exactly** you push back when a government official says a request is legal and your legal team either disagrees or is unsure if the government is interpreting their authorization appropriately?   If this is addressed elsewhere in this AMA, please feel free to refer me. 
It reads as if you'll be only be satisfied if they give the answer you want to hear.
A) What is the other FISA authority you refer to, that this act will limit?  B) I'll have to look into the NSL changes more. I thought those were getting successfully challenged by the courts and that some safety guards were in place now around NSL use. Does the extended protection from liability that comes with the Freedom Act decrease the likelihood that providers, such as yourself, will go to the trouble of challenging future requests?  C) Is the threat of a worse bill really a reason to support this bill? That seems like were just buying in to McConnell's good cop/bad cop routine.  D) I have heard that the bill expand the current searching and chaining operations to allow the linking based on session identifiers and other forms of connection-chaining. What other ways is this bill, as you say, not perfect?  E) Have you gotten wind of any potential amendments to the Freedom Act that we should be wary of?  Thanks for taking the time to speak with us.
&gt; You can opt out fully by not using the service.  This isn't necessarily true.  Google is embedded everywhere and collects data in passing.  I communicate with people that may, unbeknownst to me, be using google directly (gmail, etc) and my information is there also.    I don't use any of their services, yet I can guarantee that they have a large dossier of information on me without my consent.  &gt; Remember, if you're not paying for the product, you are the product.  Not only am I not paying for it, I actively avoid it... fat lot of good that does.  
/u/r_salgado is deliberately not answering your question, because Google doesn't want to tell people exactly what data they store or for how long. In 2007 Google admitted that they had stored every search query ever entered into their search engine, and what the user eventually clicked on.   Storage media is cheap. Information is valuable. The chances that Google maintains *all* metadata on all its users, forever, is pretty high.
Well, that's not exactly how it works. I asked the question because Google is currently building an entirely open-source Chrome extension called [end-to-end](https://github.com/google/end-to-end) that is meant to eliminate this exactly possibility, and I wanted to know if the gov't has thrown any hissy fits about it behind closed doors, or if Google expects them to.  End-to-end uses the OpenPGP standard and will allow users to encrypt their mail (or anything for that matter) using a public-private keypair that the user, and only the user has access to. Google will never have access to or be responsible for the user's private keys. There is no way to build a backdoor into a system like this. You can check out the code yourself. It's all on GitHub, and the developers on the project have a strong history of being anti-NSA, anti-backdoor, pro-privacy, etc. I think users of Google's products should be excited about this project, and should support Google developers in their efforts.
[deleted]
That is a non-answer. Did the PR team type it up for you?
Blanket denials don't read as real answers. I'm grateful they answered, but that totally sounds like a canned statement. I think people genuinely want to know how Google responds to surveillance orders, from both US &amp; Foreign governments. And it might very well be that they are gagged from disclosing. So, in all honesty I was surprised they answered at all.
Sometimes I wonder how much he really knows.  I don't think it's far-fetched to think that perhaps intelligence agencies have their own people inserted into key positions in these huge tech companies, maybe the intelligence agencies' own undercover personnel within the tech companies are responding to surveillance orders.  
[deleted]
Regarding notifying users about requests, does that mean after the court decision yesterday, Verizon would have to formally notify its users that they have been turning over metadata to the government?  Maybe they've already done this and I'm unaware.
[deleted]
WebRTC is point-to-point... only two parties can communicate with it in a given session (check the w3c spec: "An RTCPeerConnection allows two users to communicate directly, browser to browser." http://www.w3.org/TR/webrtc/#introduction ). I does not do videoconferencing which you need a heavier middle server presence.
there are two possibilities:  1. you're a Google employee who uses a throwaway because you don't want to be fired for sharing internal information   2. you're a Google employee who created the account to *make it look like* you don't want to be fired for sharing internal information, but in fact you're feeding us with lies because noone made you verify yourself, so noone can say that Google has been lying to us. 
and why would ANYONE believe anything google has to say??
Piggybacking on this question, the US national security bureaucracy (intelligence and military) has moved to play a larger role in protecting US firms from foreign hackers, especially threats emanating from foreign governments. Does Google welcome these efforts to protect it from foreign hackers? Do you think the US government has the capacity to significantly protect Google and other companies from foreign hackers?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Hi there, a bit late to the discussion. How much of the data the NSA and other organizations are collecting, can be used as a tool with the current programs being researched by IARPA?
How can anyone trust you?   There already were policies, that were violated. Your answer is to create more policies to apparently "stop the violation of policies."  I'd respect you a lot more if you said "the law's the law" or something along the lines of "tough shit" rather than pretend that you're the leaders in surveillance reform.  Hey, it's reforming what you already did. And KFC donates $1 for every 50 gallon tub of soda you buy, and Philip-Morris spends lots of money on anti-smoking media. Zzz.   
[deleted]
Any plans to allow Android users control the exposure of their personal information though granular permissions?
The Google Fiber Privacy Notice says:  "Other information from the use of Google Fiber Internet (such as URLs of websites visited or content of communications) will not be associated with the Google Account you use for Fiber, except with your consent or to meet any applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request."  I take that to mean that Google does not use its position as my ISP to monitor my browsing habits and that my browsing habits are not associated to me personally as a result of my use of a Google Fiber connection. Google may continue collecting information on me as they might any other Internet user, but Google is not afforded any additional information about me as a result of my being a Google Fiber customer.  Is my interpretation correct? 
The whatsapp utilisation of Textsecure is weak. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
this answer is pathetic
[deleted]
I searched Google and found https://www.google.com/transparencyreport/userdatarequests/legalprocess/ - do you expect a more thorough answer than this?
That's not an acceptable answer.  I shouldn't be subject to corporate surveillance any more than i should be subject to government surveillance.  Is your answer to the NSA issues to not talk or use anything on the internet because you're being spied on?  I wouldn't think so (and if it is, there's nothing more to talk about here).  I don't consent to turning over my information to any company (unless I'm doing business with them) willingly.  Least of all, a company like google which I want no part of.  And no, I won't retreat from the internet because a company like google feels entitled to my information.
[deleted]
&gt; It's how they make their money, but it's also central to most of the services they provide. I don't understand - do you think Google should just not keep any data and not use any data to (e.g.) provide you better search results, voice transcription, etc?  In my perfect world, companies would either have to ask explicit permission to utilize user metadata and/or explain exactly what it's being used for. It would also be nice if I could opt out of data collection, and I'd just pay Google for their services. Obviously the horse has left the barn when it comes to privacy and none of this is unlikely to happen, so really all I can do is chime in occasionally and point out that Google, for a company that claims to consider themselves privacy leaders, are incredibly hand-wavy not to mention hypocritical about user data.   It's not just that Google is storing data about me. They are also making big plays beyond 'data storage' into real world 'surveillance'. From Google Voice to Hangouts to Google DNS and Google Fiber, the purchase of Nest to the obvious geolocation potentials of Android and their self driving car to Google Glass. Google is actively trying to collapse the barrier between private space and public space. And its getting to the point where people are getting actively creeped out about it, despite Google keeping their data gathering on the down-low, beyond a 'Don't be evil' facade. The reaction to Google Glass is the prime example.   &gt; If you don't want it stored, don't use Google.  This is the equivalent of saying "don't use the internet." Even if I stay off all Google services, most websites (and phone apps, etc) these days use Google services for things like form auto-completion and/or analytics. I don't think that I should have to retire to the deep woods, grow a long beard, and threaten to shoot trespassers in order to avoid data being collected about me. I believe there should be a happy medium. And given the continual growth of technology and data gathering, soon enough one or more governments are going to step in and there's going to be a line drawn.
Cthulhu 2016. Why vote for the LESSER of two evils?  &lt;/stolen from somewhere&gt;
Haha its pretty clear by your comments that you were rejected by Google or something. You're just saying bitter, unfounded shit and its pretty hilarious. You clearly know almost nothing about what you're talking about. 
[deleted]
Protip: they're using gmail if their email ends with "@gmail.com." Its pretty easy to figure out. Outside of that, if you don't use ANY of their services EVER, then no, they don't have a dossier of information on you, you're just being paranoid. 
&gt; Protip: they're using gmail if their email ends with "@gmail.com." Its pretty easy to figure out.  That is both condescending and false.  You can use gmail back to setup a personalized domain.  &gt; Outside of that, if you don't use ANY of their services EVER, then no, they don't have a dossier of information on you  Right, just like fb wasn't setting up shadow profiles?  Love to see your source on this one.  &gt; you're just being paranoid.   Funny how being protective of my personal information and data is construed as paranoid.  This used to be taught as the norm for a reason.  Sadly, privacy is being forgotten by people who have been raised not knowing any better
Being protective of your personal data isn't being g paranoid. Saying "I've never used a Google product but I GUARANTEE they have a full dossier on me," is being paranoid. 
Dossier... profile... summary of habit... call it whatever you want.  I'm not a person to them, just a product and I'll guarantee that, regardless of your desired relationship with them, they have something for everyone.  They don't care since it could add pennies to their bottom line.  Yes, I'd be willing to bet it exists simply because it would be utterly foolish to think otherwise.    Thus my objection.  I've no desire to let this company have any of my information as I've no desire to do any business with it.
[deleted]
What I really like to have transcripts published of attempts at pushback.
well, there are some things that they cannot discuss openly :V
I have no problem with saying you can't discuss an issue for confidentiality reasons, but you completely avoided the question and did not even acknowledge it. He's asking specifically about the breach of your particular team, not the service hack in general.
&gt; We don't build backdoors into our services. We do not have a "surveillance portal."    A follow-up question: have you done it in the past?  
Please post an update!
How long is that period? Can you give an upper bound like no longer than a day?  When you delete data is it done with a secure delete mechanism (overwriting)?
I sent both a PM, but am waiting to hear back. I wouldn't expect it to be a ten minute process if I do make progress. It's been a 14 month battle now. 
As a Google shareholder, I hope they get advice from a PR team. And legal team as well.  Google is a publicly traded company. They have a duty to their shareholders, and over-sharing about a sensitive matter that could disrupt relations with the government of a major market or comment on either currently ongoing or future litigation would be really dangerous.
"We do not build backdoors" does not equal "We have not built backdoors"
&gt; I don't think a world where every website you visit pops up a giant form...is tenable.  This is probably a worst-case scenario. To some extent, there's already examples of what I'm talking about. The EU is requiring people put cookies notices on their pages, which is why you see a lot of those now. There's also a number of privacy-based notifications in iOS where the phone will ask you "Google Maps wants access to GPS, allow or deny". And there's privacy settings for each app differentiated by what hardware/software the app wants access to. It can be done pretty well if a company is so inclined.             &gt; They do a great job of protecting user privacy. They use your data in aggregate/anonymized/non-human analysis   You might be referring to information that Google supplies to 3rd parties. I'd argue that we don't really know how Google uses our data, because they don't clearly explain what data they gather and how they use it. The only thing in that regards that they make explicitly clear is that they don't utilize PII with ad-based cookies, a policy which is neither guaranteed to be aggregated nor anonymous. It's pretty simple to collect information about online behavior and figure out who that person is.   I would also argue that any situation where I'm engaging in online activity, and I don't know if someone else has access to that activity, that activity is by definition not private. If I'm talking to someone on Google Hangouts and I don't know if the conversation is being recorded? Not private. If I'm using Chrome and enable "Incognito Mode" and search for "Chicks with dicks that put mine to shame", and I don't know if my searches are being recorded? Not private.   Google is certainly very good (better than most, anyway) at *protecting their user data*, which is not the same thing as protecting user privacy. They are outspoken regarding their form of 'user privacy' because they need to maintain that fiction so users will continue to feel safe storing data on Google servers.  &gt; I don't mean to stereotype you  ...but you'll do it anyway, I guess. Let's just note that your first mental leap when talking to someone who is concerned about their personal privacy or the social implications regarding loss of privacy is that they are ignorant about technology, and we can move on.  &gt; Google's certainly expanding into more and more spaces where they can aggregate more and more of your data to provide you more and more services  Restating what I said into Google marketing-speak doesn't mean that what I said was wrong. Surveillance just means 'observation', be it by a person or a computer. It doesn't mean there's some Google employee watching me through my camera. I mean that, with the advent of face and voice recognition, more Google (or other company's/government's) cameras are on the street, they can not only track the Android or Google Glass or Google Car user's social behaviors, they (eventually) would be able to track anyone who is in the vicinity of that person, their location, and their behavior. I already see signs of this on Facebook, where I'm prompted to tag myself and other people in photos I didn't take and where I wasn't manually tagged by other people.  A company can 'provide more and more services' (arguably good) and also be putting people under increasing levels of surveillance (arguably bad). Those notions aren't mutually exclusive.   &gt; Their services don't work without collection of data, though.   Some services don't. Some work fine, depending on the features. I don't really use anything other than Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail when I must, and Google Drive when I must. The only one that remotely *needs* collection of data to provide me service is Google Search, and I would actually prefer to not have customized search results there anyway. There's a lot of [social impact](http://www.thefilterbubble.com) regarding giving people only the information they want to see.   &gt; Paying for an ad-free experience is a reasonable want, but saying "I want Google's services to work without them collecting my data" is like saying "I would rather my lights just turned on without me having to use electricity".  Sure, and I'm not saying I want Google Now without Google accessing my calendar, my location, etc, etc. I want the things I listed above without Google gathering my data. Google wouldn't do that because those that are able and willing to pay for such a service are the people that are most valued to advertisers -- heavy computer users with a middle to upper class income.  &gt; You can't use the internet without data being collected about you - that is the nature of the beast, the same way if you go out in public, someone might take your picture. You probably can't even send paper mail without data being collected about you.  There's a significant, night and day difference between your comparisons. A relatively anonymous internet interaction where my ISP's server logs and a website's cookies are separate is a night and day difference to Google *actively* asking and gathering PII and other information. It's just like the people defending Google Glass because people might take out their smartphone to take a picture. It's not the same (in fairness, I think services like Periscope have the capability of being pretty creepy too).  The point is that aside from some random flare-ups about user data and privacy, etc (off the top of my head, the NSA stuff, Google Glassholes, Apple .Mac social engineering, etc) there hasn't been a real conversation about *real* personal privacy in the US.  &gt; I guess that's not totally true - we could legislate such that services like the ones Google provide are made impossible (e.g. "it is illegal to collect and aggregate metadata about a particular individual"). I don't want to see that happen though, which is probably where we diverge ideologically.  Well, as I said before, I think the horse is out of the barn and this is unlikely to happen. There's too many companies like Google that base their business model on obtaining customer data. I think even requiring companies to offer a paid opt-out would politically be a non-starter these days.  My general point about Google's hypocrisy is that the main arguments for Google's business model of using customer data is that   1) they need large data sets in order to provide the best user experience possible and  2) the data is perfectly safe on Google's servers.  which are the exact same arguments that the US Government and the NSA use for their data collection program.   You also have to note that Google like any other company could go out of business or get bought, and their privacy policy doesn't exactly address what happens to your data if that happens.  I mean, there has to be a point where you'd stop saying Google is "just collecting data to provide services" and say you just aren't interested in a particular service. When Nest got bought and people suddenly realized that Google now knows whether you are home or not. It would be interesting to find out what that point would be for you, because absent a big outcry or legal intervention, that point will come eventually.
&gt; I don't think a world where every website you visit pops up a giant form explaining (in legalese, as it would surely be) exactly what information they will be using and exactly how they will be using it and asking for your permission to do so is tenable. At best, it sounds like you're asking for the equivalent of a EULA that no one reads, essentially every time you load a new web page.  Hell yeah. We know that in Europe because of a stupid law that forces sites to indicate that they create cookies, usually using any sort of pop-up.  A vast majority of sites don't do it, probably because they never head of that, but a lot of major european sites do this and it's annoying as fuck. Especially when you flush cookies, swap navigator / OS / device...  I think that this law bringed way more annoyance than the thing it wanted to fight.  EDIT : [How it looks like on the site of the major french ISP (red arrows)](http://i.imgur.com/XGysNxj.png). There are various shapes for this legal text but I always find it annoying.
This is a very clever question, and i really hope (in vain) that it get's answered. 
Of course it won't but I appreciate your appreciation
[deleted]
To address your last point, you're absolutely right with the way the internet works right now having google with all the information makes the most sense. But as the internet grows larger, and computing power and storage costs shrink in physical size and cost, I think we may see a shift back to more personal control of our data.  This isn't just about you hosting your own email; you store all your data, maintain your own internet search engine database, and run it all with AI intelligent enough to make interacting effortless.  It will happen sooner than we think.  I read too much sci-fi. #highthoughts
Wasn't the reasons behind this explained by the developers beforehand? I read something earlier this week saying that they said in advance it wasn't a full implementation yet. 
I don't understand what it is you did that got you banned. It almost sounds in your link that you're saying you were banned because you didn't click "ok" on an updated terms of service agreement. That's crazy!
[deleted]
I'd be really curious what the deliverable for a hangouts wire tap order looks like. Is is video and audio and text files? Is is read-only access to the account? Is it a detailed export of all the collected data and metadata for a given account in a given time frame?  Probably depends on the order, (?) but it seems like they're usually written as broadly as possible. 
I'm going to disagree with you on google+. It's my favorite social network. No really.
Care to explain why?  I've never heard anyone say that haha
But then, wouldn't the government need to have access to *all* the data in order to apply these methods and find your data?
Quiet, nice conversations, not a lot of "classic facebookers". G+ is social heaven.
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Unfortunate there wasn't a bit more notice on this one. I would have liked to have asked how Google can justify it's current inconsistent censorship position - it reversed course on Blogger, but still bans apps for sexual minorities from Google Play, which is hilariously inconsistent and, bluntly, evil.  So, how can Google justify it's incoherent censorship position with regard to adult content?
Honestly I also don't trust that they've implemented it properly when their app isn't open source.
Likewise here. My entire startup was **banned for lifetime** because of my employee who had his personal account banned around 5 years ago enabled multiple signin to our official gmail account.  Google banned our entire stack for a life time due to "association"  I posted , negotiated, asked on forum to google advisors (who all were unable to help). Months of battle still raging on....   Banning for lifetime by a bot due to associating is like death penalty to a CEO because one of his employee smoked pot in the rest room.  
My account was banned for lifetime without the ability to dispute. Why do you guys do that when you have absolute monopoly on the market for Android play store (you even bar other markets on the play store ensuring your monopoly) ?  Also, how is it even legal that you guys abuse the monopoly so much? Barring developers for a lifetime for a silly reason without the ability to dispute and even disallowing other markets to flourish is extremely unethical but should not be legal too.   
Months battle for me as well. I was banned due to "association" with a guilty account. The most what the fuck reason I ever heard. I just wish we had a competitor to Google so I could transfer and spread my mails, apps etc.
I've heard of these. Someone who was banned jumps on a google apps account spreadsheet to collaborate with a few folks or something like that and boom. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Does it bother you that the encryption and privacy measures that you seek to promote, could be used for nefarious and illegal purposes by groups that could create massive loss of life?  Is privacy more important than public safety?
&gt; I don't understand - do you think Google should just not keep any data and not use any data  That's how it was originally.  All data was stored on your computer (via a cookie) and you could even opt out of that if you wanted to.  Google collected nothing about you.  https://web.archive.org/web/19991012225420/http://google.com/privacy.html  What google does today was, at one point, *illegal* at a federal level.  They had to rewrite the laws to get away with it.  I don't particularly disagree (or agree) with their business tactics, but this is a point that very few people seem to be aware of.  &gt;If you don't want it stored, don't use Google.  This is actually impossible.  If you block google, literally half the Internet stops working.  There are people who have tried to do this.  Websites are so integrated that many depend on google for them to work.
&gt; I don't think a world where every website you visit pops up a giant form explaining (in legalese, as it would surely be) exactly what information they will be using and exactly how they will be using it and asking for your permission to do so is tenable.  [Not only is it tenable, that is how the Internet used to be.](https://web.archive.org/web/19991012225420/http://google.com/privacy.html)  Using a pop up is a bit misleading, but all data collection was done on a opt-in basis, or at the very worst, was completely anonymous and happened on your own computer (meaning data wasn't actively collected and hoarded on remote servers like it is today).  From the link,  **A cookie can tell us, "This is the same computer that visited Google two days ago," but it cannot tell us, "This person is Joe Smith" or even, "This person lives in the United States."**
When CIA director David Petraeus's gmail was hacked by the FBI, they stole email "conversations" that were actually deleted drafts.  David Petraeus and his mistress used to go into a shared gmail account, write something in a draft, delete the draft, and then create another draft as a response.  If google truly deletes emails, then how was the FBI able to retrieve these deleted drafts?
Was the FBI was accessing the account as they were creating and deleting the drafts? Because then they wouldn't need to retrieve anything.
They were able to retrieve drafts that were already deleted.
Basically everyone I know is on it because of gmail, auto backup of photos from my phone means I can share photos easily, and with circles I can share with only those individuals I want.  And because it's not Facebook, my feed isn't polluted with all the crap I usually see (play candy crush with me, find out which angry bird you are, 10 reasons why _____ are destroying your _____). I still use Facebook, but I engage more on google+.
[deleted]
What is your legal position regarding the liability and likelihood of a lawsuit for Google's unwillingness to address known security issues in it's products?  Given; &gt; **Google wont fix bug hitting 60 percent of Android phones Google also uninterested in telling anyone about the bugs it does fix.**  &gt; by Google's own numbers, some 60 percent of Android users are using 4.3 or below. As such, this is a widespread, high-impact bug. The normal procedure would be to report the bug to Google, and for Google to develop a fix and publish it as part of Android Open Source Project release.  &gt; But, writes Tod Beardsley, developer of the Metasploit security testing framework, that's not what happened this time. The Android security team was notified of the problem, and the response was  &gt; If the affected version [of WebView] is before 4.4, we generally do not develop the patches ourselves, but welcome patches with the report for consideration. Other than notifying OEMs, we will not be able to take action on any report that is affecting versions before 4.4 that are not accompanied with a patch.      [Citation](http://arstechnica.com/security/2015/01/google-wont-fix-bug-hitting-60-percent-of-android-phones/)
Instead of coming here to pander to this audience about privacy violations in USA law, why not **fix the privacy disaster** in your own products?  I'm vastly less interested in hearing you try to nuzzle-up to a sympathetic audience to score some soft-PR goodwill and **more** interested why you don't instead choose to ignore existing privacy-laws?  &gt; **  &gt; Google on Wednesday was slapped with a fine by French regulators for violating privacy laws in the country. Frances CNIL published a press release on Wednesday stating that it issued the penalty late last week. ....the new policy that went into effect in March 2012 does not comply with Frances Data Protection Act.  [Source](http://bgr.com/2014/01/08/google-privacy-law-violation-france-fine/)
Instead of playing PR-games with this audience, instead, why not tell us why it was that Google **collected mass amounts of WiFi data** when it was claiming it was only trying to collect map data?  What was the real purpose of your data collection?  How can we trust that Google wasn't using open WiFi access points?  How can we trust that you no longer have that dataset?  On this matter;  &gt; a representative of Consumer Watchdog replied, **"Once again, Google has demonstrated a lack of concern for privacy. Its computer engineers run amok, push the envelope and gather whatever data they can until their fingers are caught in the cookie jar." In a sign that legal penalties may result, Google said it will not destroy the data until permitted by regulators.**  [Google Grabs Personal Info Off WiFi Networks](https://web.archive.org/web/20100528181755/http://finance.yahoo.com/news/Google-grabs-personal-info-apf-2162289993.html?x=0)  My question for your AUA:  What is the state of your defense of this case now that you've received two [court rulings against you](http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2013/09/10/technology/google-streetview-appeal-opinion.html?ref=technology&amp;_r=0) for this admitted privacy breach?
Hello Google PR-pandering hacks.  Instead of talking about US law, which you don't control or shape outside your enormous [lobbying work (more than Apple, Facebook &amp; MSFT combined)](http://mashable.com/2012/04/24/google-record-lobbying/)   **Why did google opt instead to violate the privacy of it's users with it's broadly botched "me-too" Buzz product?**  Saying nothing of the aspects of the Product Dumping Business Model that google employs (clone/steal other people's IP and then dump it onto the market, wrapped in advertising), why is it that you're here pretending to care about Privacy when **google itself violates the privacy of it's users, whenever it wishes, to serve it's own business goals**?  &gt; **WARNING: Google Buzz Has A Huge Privacy Flaw**   &gt; When you first go into Google Buzz, it automatically sets you up with followers and people to follow...  &gt; The problem is that -- *by default* -- the people you follow and the people that follow you are made public to anyone who looks at your profile.  &gt; In other words, before you change any settings in Google Buzz, someone could go into your profile and see the people you email and chat with most.  [Citation](http://www.businessinsider.com/warning-google-buzz-has-a-huge-privacy-flaw-2010-2?op=1)  What moral position do you have to lecture the US Gov on the Patriot Act when your own employer regularly disregards the privacy of it's own product (I don't mean users here.  Or customers, because google's customers are advertisers, and it's true product is to systematically violate the privacy of users and sell that information to it's customers (advertisers).)
I'm honestly much more concerned about Google collecting data than I am about the government doing it.  You guys are a purely for profit company, and are literally in the business of creating opportunities to collect data and using it to manipulate behavior.  Not to mention the fact that I have no idea who you distribute it to, or what you're really doing with all of it.  Google has more power than most governments, and isn't constrained by an obligation to serve anyone but your shareholders..  Why are people okay with this?
Or "we don't build them, the NSA does that" doesn't mean the backdoors aren't there.
Now that google was caught intentionally data-mining children's email -- in violation of it's own stated, public policy and contracts -- how can google be remotely trusted to not be violating the privacy of all it's users continually?    &gt; As part of a potentially explosive lawsuit making its way through federal court, the giant online-services provider Google has acknowledged scanning the contents of millions of email messages sent and received by student users of the companys Apps for Education tool suite for schools.   [Source](http://www.edweek.org/ew/articles/2014/03/13/26google.h33.html)
Of course it isn't the only stock I own. 
I find googles data collection much more troubling than the NSA's.  Their sole purpose is to milk profits out of massive data collection, and they come up with goods and services for the sole purpose of gathering/manipulating information.  I don't understand why people love google and hate the NSA.  
Do Not Track enables and protects personal privacy.  **Why does google refuse to enable Do Not Track by default?**  How do you rectify the lack of concern for your own customers' privacy with your attempt to score PR-points by pandering on the Patriot Act?  &gt; In April 2011, Google was criticized for not signing onto the Do Not Track feature for Chrome that is being incorporated in most other modern web browsers, including Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari, and Opera. Critics pointed out that a new patent Google was granted in April 2011, for greatly enhanced user tracking through web advertising, will provide much more detailed information on user behavior and that do not track would hurt Google's ability to exploit this. Software reviewer Kurt Bakke of Conceivably Tech wrote:  &gt; Google said that it intends to charge [sic] advertisers based on click-through rates, certain user activities and a pay-for-performance model. The entire patent seems to fit Google's recent claims that Chrome is critical for Google to maintain search dominance through its Chrome web browser and Chrome OS and was described as a tool to lock users to Google's search engine and  ultimately  its advertising services. So, how likely is it that Google will follow the do-not-track trend? Not very likely.[117] 
Because every Google product was created for the sole purpose of data collection.  They won't shut themselves out of anything.
Why is this being downvoted?  That's the whole point of their company.
They easily could, they don't want to.  The whole reason Google exists is data collection--the only reason they'd cut themselves out of a source of info was if they got enough bad publicity over it.
The other thing it implies is that in order to intercept the message, the attacker would have to have access to a host computer, or the server. So the government cannot spy on the target without compliance from Google. Which they publish how often that happens. 
Reddit never forgets.
Honestly you're in a tiny minority of people who realize this.  I thought I was taking crazy pills 
The thing you've got backwards is that Google isn't collecting data to optimize their services, their creating services to optimize their data collection.  Google is an advertising company
EXACTLY, if there were another employee that was under a non-disclosure order to give the government access, then Salgado would have no idea. He needs to stop acting like that mechanism does not exist.
That's not how publicly traded companies work.
You keep saying "regularly", yet cite one specific case from 2010 (Buzz). That was over 5 years ago.
Buzz, refusal on Do Not Track, getting caught intentionally data-mining children's emails for advertising to them in violation of policy and contract....  I could go on...
So, given that Google has been known to hand over details to the NSA in the past (http://www.wired.com/2013/06/google-uses-secure-ftp-to-feds and http://gizmodo.com/how-google-gives-your-information-to-the-nsa-512840958), why the sudden interest in security and privacy? I find this particularly ironic given that the Google business model is to take user's private data and profit from it, so why the movement to attempt to prevent the NSA from doing this? And finally, if this is really what the Law Enforcement Director and the Senior Privacy Policy counsel really feel, why have such tight ties between Google and the NSA?
[citation needed]
So, in otherwords, if your business model would happen to be to sell access to monitor your users activity to third party, you would proactively implement features to enhance the experience and satisfaction of your customers (the ones that actually pay for your services). It's really just a question of money, after all. Most people forget that if they are not paying for a service, their data and metadata are the product sold the the real customers. So the real question is how much is it worth selling our data to the U.S. govt?
People don't really get anything from the NSA
[deleted]
[deleted]
Because the NSA doesn't provide any goods or services in exchange for their data collection. Because you're not giving the NSA your data, they are taking it, and using fucked up means to do so. Because Google can't throw you in jail. Because they openly say they are profiting off of advertisements (and using your information to target those ads to you), whereas the NSA will lie to Congress and the American people under penalty of perjury and not face any consequences.
[deleted]
What's stopping you from using Office 365?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Sanity
That's an absolutely ridiculous statement. I only buy securities of companies that are well managed and act in a manner that protects shareholder value. 
They don't provide any goods or services!!?  Really, lol?  And no, I disagree that Google is open about what they're doing.  If you ask people on the street "what is google" very very few would answer correctly that it's a data collection and advertising company.  The services they provide are only means of access to more of your information, so they can better tailor their advertising to you, and better manipulate your consumer behavior.
That's absurd
That's just because it's new and small, so you have the early adopter demographic. If it were to become anywhere close to Facebook's size, the community would degenerate in turn.
No, I believe they were not deleted drafts. They were simply drafts which weren't sent at any point. So regular, non-deleted drafts.
I'll be sure to avoid Google Apps for Business... 
Not every single needs to be erased if it's a huge piece of data; you can keep it encrypted in storage, keep the encryption key elsewhere, and then only have to delete the keys.  But now you have to backup the key material just as much as all that data, and then you have to go hunt down all those backups
I am really glad that it practically failed(it's not new).
This means nothing to your typical virginal 20 year old basement dwelling redditor. Doesn't matter if you have proof or a Google director tells you something.  This entire thread is full of crazy. No other large company (Apple?) would do such an ama and judging by the crazy, I see why.
Like iOS does? http://www.androidpit.com/google-giving-users-control-app-permission
Exactly.
This is correct.  I know as a fact that Cisco uses crypto libraries provided directly by the NSA.  Google would have to as well.  If you do not use these libraries in cryptographic products, they can revoke your export license for cryptographic products.  
That's not the point. The point was the blanket, automated bans with little or no appeals process in place.
It has been fixed. Android version 4.4. The legal responsibility falls on the OEMs for not patching their software.
So, Google wants to have it both ways?    No responsibility but all of the control?  Seems a very non-user-friendly way to take a product to market.
I totally get that, but you said you wished there was a competitor, and I suggested one.  There is quite a bit of competition in this space, but like Google, they are susceptible to government surveillance, regardless of the legality of said surveillance.   As far as customer service goes, I've found Microsoft's to be far superior to Google's.
&gt;They don't provide any goods or services!!?  Really, lol?  Nice straw man. I said, **"in exchange for their data collection."**   And your argument makes no attempt to refute anything I actually said. If you ask most people on the street to point to Honduras on a map, they wouldn't be able to. It doesn't mean it doesn't exist.  The sevices google provides are actually useful to me - the means of using my email, search, calendar, documents, etc.  and integrating all of these services. I'm fully aware that they can also provide Google information used to tailor ads to me and I am all for it. If I didn't like their goods and services, then I would just stop using them. Google can't restrict my personal freedoms.  Meanwhile, I have no idea what information the NSA is accessing, how long they are keeping it, how they are analyzing it, how I could be expected to have to account for this information in a court of law, etc.  I'm not saying you have to like what Google is doing, but they are one of MANY companies doing exactly the same thing. They aren't special. There isn't some grand conspiracy here.
It's not this guy's job to teach readers about how encryption works. Like anything else, the question of "how secure is hangouts?" is complex and can't be answered easily with 'YES, hangouts is totally secure' or 'NO, hangouts is not totally secure'.  If you or anyone else doesn't understand what 'encrypted in transit' implies signals a shortfall that YOU, the reader are responsible to comprehend. The burden of understanding is not on r_salgado to break it all the way down for everyone.
Just because Apple says they can't wiretap FaceTime doesn't mean it's true. End to end encryption is just another buzzword. Apple manages the keys, meaning they can decrypt the data at will.
If you follow advice that looks anything like this, you are absolutely doing it wrong!
Wow, those are some fancy mental gymnastics.
How is it mental gymnastics exactly? You shouldn't expect to learn the finer points of anything from a corporate executive. That's the definition of laziness.
True as that may be, you're trying to justify dishonesty. Yes, it is his job to teach readers how encryption works, that is literally what he was being paid to do during that block of time.
&gt; Yes, it is his job to teach readers how encryption works, that is literally what he was being paid to do during that block of time.  He's not 'literally being paid' to teach a class on cryptography. He's here to explain Google's role in government surveillance.   From his perspective, that means explaining Google's policy on compliance and how Google generally interacts with the government on this issue. He shouldn't have to explain to you how to take a pee-pee before he gets to the real meat of the topic. Read a book on crypto...don't blame your lack of motivation on this executive and call him 'dishonest' for not going a mile out of his way to make sure everyone understands the bare essentials of computer security before getting to the main event.   I'm sure you'll have a really great response for why I'm wrong, but by all means continue to feel entitled to get a free lesson on how crypto works and feel ripped off for the high price you paid (nothing) in order to learn nothing.  ... or you'll just end the discussion claiming some high ground you didn't achieve on a point you didn't even bother taking the time to clarify on.  
Sorry, but I'm not going to dignify someone trying to justify dishonesty with a serious response. Bye.
We will all remember you for your bravery. 
Did you / do you know anyone who seriously expects google to keep all of your data secret from the Government?  That's naive.  But when you consider the fact that [Google published how many times they give the government user information](http://www.google.com/transparencyreport/userdatarequests/US/) it's just dumb.  Dishonesty? More like politely telling you people to stop being dumb and use your brains. And yet you needed this confirmed... Smh
The trade-off is, either you get end-to-end encryption from you to your friend, or you get to see your chats in-thread in gmail and other web clients. Never both. Pick one? Most people pick the latter.
Being second-rate in terms of users means that people who post there are more deliberate and thoughtful. The signal-to-troll ratio is nicely high, similar to Reddit of 7 years ago.
Probably because of the derisive tone it was written.
iMessaging clients use the public key from the recipient device to encrypt the data. Apple caches people's public keys on their server so you can send offline messages. Thus they cannot read the data. The sender has to individually request every public key for every one of the recipient's registered devices and encrypt the message individually for each.
What was the reason for the ban?
https://support.google.com/work/answer/6056650 specifies a maximum of how long it takes for the data to be deleted for Google Apps.  I didn't quickly find a public answer for consumer data, though this Quota answer has some information: http://www.quora.com/How-long-does-Google-keep-your-e-mail-after-you-delete-it
There are certainly rumors of that, but we'll just have to wait and see. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-05-07/google-said-ready-to-give-android-users-more-privacy-controls
Users, please be wary of proof. You are welcome to ask for more proof if you find it insufficient.   OP, if you need any help, please message the mods [here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fiama&amp;subject=&amp;message=).  Thank you!   *I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/IAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.*
it didn't exactly take /u/reddit_poly a great deal of effort to explain it in laymen's terms. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
Source? Especially about revoking licenses   
