Users, please be wary of proof. You are welcome to ask for more proof if you find it insufficient.   OP, if you need any help, please message the mods [here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fiama&amp;subject=&amp;message=).  Thank you!   *[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Hi Leo, Ive been a fan since the TechTV days. My questions:  1. I was wondering about totaldrama, and whether you have any legal options against that idiot (slander/etc)? He seems to have an creepy / unhealthy obsession with you.  2. How did the return of Jason Calacanis happen? Im happy hes back and whatever issues you had are resolved now.  Sorry for the somewhat negative questions, but Ive been curious about them.  Thank you and enjoy your AMA!   EDIT: I moderate /r/tnss and would like to ask anyone who is interested in helping me mod it that 1) has mod experience 2) knows css 3) enjoys "The New Screen Savers" or TWiT in general to please [PM me.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=death-by-circlejerk&amp;subject=&amp;message=)   
anyone else from he original ScreenSaver crew coming back?
What would you do for a Klondike bar?
It's legit.  https://twitter.com/leolaporte/status/595346135054561280
They're on Rev3, if not on TWiT
Hi Leo,  Are you still an active radio amateur?
Big fan for a long time. I host a large YT Channel now, over  1M subs and yet we struggle with painfully low ad rates. You told me once you get 80 CPMs. HOw do current Yters get that kind of cheddar for their hard work?
Hello Leo,  Sometimes, on various shows that cover Apple, Google, or Microsoft, you have a tendency to "like" that platform for that show, then disparage it on one of the other shows. Is this intentional or an attempt to "be fair"? It sometimes comes across as odd.
Thanks for Bringing back The New Screens Savers. Watching it also made it seem like it never ended way back when. I was one of the first to win a TWiT hoodie at the Apple Store. Do you have plans to take the show on the road?
[deleted]
If I recall, TWiT originally went by "The New Screen Savers" until your previous employer put a stop to that. What happened to let you call it this again? (I suspect the answer might be "I can't talk about that." That's fine, too)
Hey Leo, Im a big fan from Glasgow UK. Having never seen the original Screen Savers other than on YouTube its great to get to experience the magic live on TWiT. I love what youre doing on the network and my evenings here in Scotland start every weekday with Mike Elgans TNT.  Anyway, on to my question: besides Kevin and Martin, who can we expect to see as your co-host on TNSS? (and I don't just mean people from the 'old' Screen Savers)
Would love to have you do a triangulation with the Quad Father, without getting too religious; his path to TWiT seems very interesting. Ever consider doing Triangulations with some of your hosts?
Hi Leo. I've been listening to Windows Weekly for years and years; really love the content you guys produce.   My question is: Has a guest ever turned out to be very rude in a way that totally surprised you? If so, how did you deal with it on the air? 
Hi Leo- Thanks very much for providing such good Tech commentary/entertainment/news all these years... Real quick, who is the co-host who makes you crack up laughing most consistently?
On point #2, yesterday's show was probably one of the best in a long time because Jason has a ton of insight into how Silicon Valley works. Glad the dust up is done!
Leo,  Obviously the move is towards internet-based delivery, and you guys were a pioneer of that. However, there are lots of us out here who like "channels" and to mindlessly consume content that way. Any chance of a more "produced" linear channel instead of just a live stream of recordings, that has regularly scheduled shows, produced breaks, etc. And any chance that you guys would ever be available on cable/satellite in addition to online?
Can you switch Twit live over so we can watch you do this AMA live?
Right now it seems like you're going to rotate through co-hosts every week on TNSS. Are you eventually going to pick a new permanent co-host?
Jason Calacanis is back now, when will you invite Adam Curry back? 
What happened at the TWIT studios a couple of months ago? Reports that police were called?
Hi Leo, do you still mock black people and asians?
What are some of your favorite things about the new site?
Is John C. Dvorak a troll persona? He seems like he might be a nice guy when you don't give him attention. 
Trolls be trolling. Nothing I can, or want, to do about it.   As for Jason, I never lost my affection or regard for him, I just didn't want to promote a business that was copying TWiT. It was silly and I'm glad he was willing to accept my apology. He really is great on TWiT.
Would you rather fight 100 duck-sized horses or 1 horse-sized duck?
I watched TNSS on Saturday and it brought back good memories from my teenage years. It just didn't have the same feel as it did back then, probably because there are just so many technology shows available now than it was back in the early 2000's. I still loved it, you're 99% responsible for what I do for a living today.  How long do we have to wait to see Kevin Mitnick and Steve Wozniak host a show?
When you have Kevin Rose on, do you think you'll be able to get any devious Dark Tips out of him?
Any word on bringing back a new Call for Help or anything around that realm?
Hi Leo,  I've been a fan since the ZDTV days and thoroughly miss seeing your show on TV (also a big fan of Call for Help).  Will you be doing different segments in The New Screen Savers like the download of the day and live calls?  I can't wait for the new show!
Have you had any issues with people using your content in unanticipated / inappropriate ways since you've been releasing it under creative commons?
Who was a pain to work with? Who was the absolute best?
How long will it take before the "New" in the title can be dropped?
Thankyou!
What happened with Brian Brushwood?  When are you going to make-up and have him back?
Where do you see TWIT going in the next ten years?
Any Chance of Martin Sargent return?
[deleted]
Pretty much everyone. Patrick was co-host Saturday, Kevin Rose is this Saturday. Megan, Sarah, Martin Sargent, Morgan Webb, Kate Botello, have all agreed to appear. But we're also going to be featuring the folks who work at TWiT and many others. I don't want it to be a nostalgia show - we just want to be as fun and informative as the original.
Hi Leo! Big fan of TWIT, Coding 101, and many other shows on the TWIT Network. 1. Could you tell us a little bit about your programming background?  2. Do you find yourself programming at all on your free time? Thanks!
is it THE Nick Bilton!?
Leo, huge fan of TWit, and the TechTV Days/Screen Savers. Are you bringing back Patrick full time to the show and are you going to have an app on the Roku/Smart TV's? 
Agreed. In the past I often felt Jason took too much airtime. Yesterday, he offered some great insights.
[deleted]
Hey Leo, what's your biggest fear for the new show?  Also, you guys are really great at discussing TV shows especially how they relate to tech. Any plans for this week in TV?
Which now-discontinued TWiT-network show do you wish could have kept going?
[deleted]
I have my general ticket: W6TWT, but I never get on these days. I spend so much time on the air as it is! I am planning to do some DXing and learn CW when I get a moment. Probably something for retirement!! 73!
I had (ok, still have) such a huge crush on Soledad O'Brien. What was it like working with her back on The Site?
There was a [bomb threat](http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/3708231-181/bogus-bomb-threat-prompts-downtown).
Hi Leo! I've been a long time fan since TechTV. It was a while ago and I don't exactly remember, but I do recall reading an article that said Comcast was not very pleased with the use of "The Revenge of the Screen Savers" name. How were you able to use "The Screen Savers" name?
Why not make Patrick a host instead of a guest on the new screensavers?
How true was the story you told at the first Brickhouse NYE party about dropping acid, and how much was inebriation/sleep deprivation?
It's technically "This Week in Tech"
Shwood wanted to be able to cuss and talk about very adult topics and that didn't fit with twit. As far as I know, the split was amicable. 
[deleted]
He mentioned Comcast let the trademark lapse.
Hey Leo, huge fan since the TechTV days and still watch/listen to TWIT and MacBreakWeekly every week.   I have a selfish question. I'm a professional broadcaster and every few months I check to see if there are any openings at TWIT. Any advice on getting a foot in the door?
Hi Leo, as a long time fan of your shows since the days of Tech TV and Screen Savers days, since the New Screen Savers debuted, any chance of it some day going back to television or is it just going to stay on Twit tv? 
Hi Leo!  Just curious if you were planning to bring back the "Build the Ultimate Gaming Machine" segment in Screen Savers?  That was always one of my favorite parts, not only because it provided great insight at the time into the top of the line parts, but a great laugh later on to look at how far we have come.  Hope all is well.  Thanks for sharing your time with us! 
Hi Leo, thank you for doing what you do. I religiously watch 7 of the regular shows on the TWiT network.  Actually, that would be 8 counting TNSS.    I was wondering, is there something you truly wish you could have the chance to completely do over?  If so, what is it?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Hi Leo,   I missed out on the first brick wall and would love to contribute, have you thought about doing another brick donation? 
What would it take to get you to sponsor / attend my IT conference happening in New Orleans in 2weeks?  Thanks! Love the show.
What would it take to bring you back to iOS?
Yeah, but the first 3-ish episodes were called "TNSS" or something before switching over to "This Week in Tech."
Advertisers pay what an ad is worth. I always thought TWiT was a premium product, so we've always held out for high CPMs (cost per thousand impressions).   My goal is to give advertisers a reasonable return on investment while maximizing the amount we make. Just keep making great stuff! Oh, and get off YouTube - you're not working for yourself, you're enriching Google!
Hi Leo, I loved your work since Comcast added TechTV and your TWiT.tv network is even better!  What is the best way to watch your programming on TV? I have a non-smart hidef TV, a BoxeeBox (I currently use this with the twit app), a chromecast, an iPhone, iPad, and MacBook Pro. 
I have heard it said that everyone wants to hear positive things and people out of their media. leo is typically relatively positive about most things. I think that is part of his popularity, the others certainly are looking for something else. I also think it is easy to get caught up in the hype about anything in particular, especially when you have an expert there who is telling you how great it is. the seems natural and human to me.
Big fan since the TechTV days, hope to make it up there from SoCal someday. Are there any shows that TWiT retired that you miss or really wished would have taken off?
Barutunde and Odocta are frequent guests. 
[deleted]
Hi Leo, I remember first seeing you on TechTV and am excited for the New Screensavers.  I've seen from commentators on reddit and youtube is that people think that any time an employee leaves the network that they have been fired personally by you. I try to look up each person's own explanations on why they left (contract is up, new opportunities, ect) and no one implies any bad feelings.  Is this something you can speak to or explain? Thanks
Awesome..i appreciate all you have done! Keep it up LEO!!
[deleted]
Makes sense. His show was called "NSFW" but was SFW.
Are there any podcast episodes that never made it to release? If so, can you give us the story?
I think it was ROTSS or Revenge of The Screen Savers.  
Hi Leo, I'm a huge fan from Brazil and I want to say thank you, I think TWIT was  an integral part of my English learning, I started to listen to your shown in 2007 when I was studying in Ireland, fond memories of listening to your shows in long commutes on Dublin buses.   As a question, what have you been playing recently?
TWiT was originally Revenge of the Screen Savers, but I think that only lasted a few episodes.  Like someone else mentioned in another reply to you, Comcast let the trademark go  (For whoever downvoted me.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/This_Week_in_Tech  )
"Revenge of the Screen Savers"
yes, but he continued to appear as a guest on TWiT, until the big blow up...
YES. That was it! Thanks!
I do not think that Leo ever intentionally mocks any one particular group, but he does do amusing voices and accents of many groups including white people, that if you are over sensitive could make you think that he is mocking. 
I believe he's taking about the public dustup after that when Leo and Brian had a bit a Twitter fight and Leo basically banned him from being on the network ever again. 
I believe it was called "Revenge of the screen savers", in the beginning. all the copies that I've been able to find the first few episodes have it bleeped out now
Hi Leo! Grew up watching you with my dad, ever since the original screen savers. I met you back in the summer of 2013, my entire family came for a Sunday edition of your podcast! http://imgur.com/bL7mFvG Here's the picture, I'm the guy with the white box over my sweatshirt, it had my school name on it and I didn't want to throw that out to the public! I've just got two questions, if you don't mind.  1. What do you think has been the most influential piece of technology in the last 10 years? 2. What do you think will be the most influential piece, in the next ten years?  Thanks and keep up the great work!
I just wanted to say thank you for being an inspiration for me during my teenage years. My current occupational path was due to your influence during the Tech TV days. Call for Help, The Screen Savers, etc.  I recently saw your interview with Kevin Rose, during it you mentioned some experiences that drew your interest with tech. What would you say was your biggest influence in making you interested in the tech world besides radio and programming?  Thank you Leo, I do hope to meet you one day and shake your hand.
[deleted]
Im guessing it will be In the Morning!  
Hey Leo, did you ever host a tech help TV show with a farm/ranch setting? I remember watching a show like this but I'm not sure it was yours. 
Have a link to this blow up?
[deleted]
The whole lineup yesterday was great. It's got to be one of the best TWiTs in a long time.
In the real world, things are rarely black or white - good or bad. I usually like some things about a product and dislike others. Maybe that's what you're hearing. People are so used to a one word opinion on something that they can't hear the full, nuanced, opinion.  I promise I state my opinion truthfully everywhere. It just may not be the simplified take you're looking for. Pretty much every show I do there's someone calling for my head because I'm insufficiently worshipful.    
Have you ever considered having Tom Merrit on Triangulation?
He has his own show on a different network.  http://www.tekthing.com/
I hadn't heard about that. Got a link?
[deleted]
I would love to. I want to rent an Airstream and take the show on the road. And if we ever figure out how, we will!
From the NSS intro, it looked like you were planning to have segments utilizing different people (Megan, etc).  Did the lawyers put a kibosh to that or did you plan on using the cohost exclusively during the entire show?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
You realize your sn is "IamA TWiT!" ?
Vintage Airstream FTW!
Hi Leo - big fan, thanks for doing this.  Who owns the rights to the old TSS theme song? Any chance of getting the rights to that music again?   I know you also suggested getting the rights to old TSS episodes. Has that progressed at all?  Thanks!
[deleted]
http://nightattack.tv/episode/31
We called it "The Revenge of the Screen Savers" for about 10 seconds. But G4TechTV was still airing a show called The Screen Savers so there was some merit in their (gentle) complaint at the time.   It's been 10 years however, and Comcast's trademark has long lapsed, so I feel comfortable using it now. Anyway, we're not copying the old show; we're creating a new show in the same spirit. 
Thanks for your hard work over the years. I've been listening to TWiT since it started, and have always enjoyed it!   My question is: how's business? I'm always curious as to the inner workings of businesses like TWiT, so I'd love to hear how it's going on the business side.  Thanks, and keep up the good work.  P.S. Come back to Hobart, Tasmania :)
You and TWiT are a very major reason why I got to be in the place to start a tech business six years ago... and we're still going. Thank you!  Get out your bragging hat: What's the largest impact on someone's life that you've heard about?
[deleted]
[deleted]
Whatever it [takes](http://i.imgur.com/zbMgjZ9.jpg).
[deleted]
[As posted on totaldrama](https://totaldrama.net/2014/10/setting-the-record-straight/)
Fr. Robert is going to do it in a couple of weeks. I think we've got Sarah on the board. Kate Botello. Many others. Everyone I talk to from the old crew is excited to take part, so it's not hard to book them!
iPad today occupied the same slot as TNSS in the live recording schedule, was Sarah's leaving forseen all along?
hi leo love twit and the new screen saver   my question is are we seeing the end of the cable company like a comcast or time warren? i know it not tech but after the break up of Comcast/TWC merger you had to ask that question? 
 Yes! Bring back Martin Sargent, baby!
That's great! 
Great idea! We have interviewed many of our hosts in the past on Triangulation. I like to space them out, though. I don't want anyone to think we're lazy about our bookings!
Two questions: 1) Why do you hate Apple? You're such a hater. 2) Why do you love Apple? You're such a fanboy.  But seriously, I think you're pretty consistent across the shows as to your current likes/don't likes.
Hi, I'm THE Nick Bilton, AMA.
So sexist he gave the running of TWiT over to a woman and women feature heavily in the shows including hosting.
I never like Calacanis and yesterday brought back all the worst parts. His continual pimping of friends sites/startups. His poker slang, who says 'dime' for a thousand dollars and his 1% lifestyle. Maybe Leo aspires to live like a king and so must associate with one
Hey Leo! So happy you're doing The New Screensavers. Congrats, and what a warmfuzz first ep.   Simple question. What emerging tech are you most excited about? 
[deleted]
[deleted]
TechTV literally changed my life?
Love the New Screensavers, been a fan (and a former call in guest back in the late 90's).  My Question is this, I am a current Radio Netcaster (hate using the word internet radio) with the popularity of netflix, hulu and even TWIT offering great programming accessible anywhere, do you see Netcasting as a viable competitor to Television (and even radio?)
[deleted]
Do you still keep in touch with Jim Louderback? Any plans to have him on to the NSS?
Leo, how do you stop yourself becoming burnt out and bored by covering technology non-stop? Don't you ever want to escape to a cabin in the wilderness?
Hi Leo!  My question is this : How long is your typical work day? How many hours a week do you personally spend at the studio? BTW : I was the first caller on your "trial episode" of The New Screen Savers, and it was amazing to be able to speak with you. I wish I could have screen-grabbed the video of my chat with you, since it never aired!
Huge fan, the show last night with Jason was great, it almost was better than the New Screensavers' first episode :) So glad to have to have twit content..  My question is this:  Whats the plan for the future? Do we see you guys moving more towards TV style content? Could The New Screen Savers ever move to a daily show again? I would love to have you continue to pioneer bringing real geek content to the masses!
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Most people are reluctant to be truly rude in public. Mike Arrington did once ask me a very rude question (he implied that I was on the take from Palm and that's why I liked the Palm Pre). I hung up on him and never had him on a show again. The video is somewhere on YouTube. Not my finest hour, but fortunately that's the only time that's happened.
I hate how much time and effort the total drama guys spends personally out for Leo..  Its horrible. 
Hi Leo! I've watched you since the Screen Savers first aired back in 1998. Watching everyday you aired was the best part of my day and is what got me into computers so much at a young age. I'm 28 now and I don't think I would be even trying to make it in the tech world if it wasn't for you and all the tech shows you've had over the years. I'm glad you do what you do so people can learn and be aware of all things tech. Thank you so much.   Now that that's out of the way, I am wondering what twit looks for in new shows, and how you guys go about coming up with new shows to air? 
I know I'm probably in the minority here but Harry McCraken is terrible.  What do you like about him?  Why do you keep inviting him on your shows?  He's such a drag.
YES YES YES DO THIS! :) 
I'm not sure. I really like the idea of rotating hosts. The New Screen Savers is intended to be a variety show. Each co-host will bring her or his unique interests to the show and I think that's fun.   I wouldn't rule it out though if we find the perfect person!
wow. at least we're polite.  
Biggest regret of TWIT network?  Best move of TWIT network?
Are you going to be the permanent host of TNSS, or are you just kicking it off and then handing it another permanent host?
Ugly is as ugly does. Inside i'm pretty. or is that petty? I'm all confused. I must escape the basement
Whoever runs that needs sectioning.
Adam seems to be taking a real delight in slamming me and TWiT. I eventually blocked him on Twitter for that reason. Naturally I'm reluctant to give him air time on my show. That's fine - there are plenty of people who aren't on TWiT. Most people, in fact. Adam has his own bully pulpit. I doubt he cares about being on mine. 
Unfortunately the legitimate criticism is lost when so much stuff that's posted is moronic.  When I dropped in to the totaldrama chat room, it's was full of sexist, shallow, misogynistic comments a millions times worse than I've seen on TWiT. Which is unfortunate, because there is some legitimate criticism.
[deleted]
That's a great photo - you even got the gong in the background!
No kidding. Jason really brought his A game to yesterday's TWiT. Lots of fun and tremendous insight and feeling. 
[deleted]
I would love to know _why_ they are doing it. I mean, there must be some background to this. How did Leo shaft them?
As a fan since July 1999 (first day ZDtv was available to us), I have to be honest and say that, since the move to the brickhouse, the product has changed and lost a lot of connection and genuine, cozy appeal that it had before twit 'hit the big time' and became a homogenized factory-esq product. I went from listening to literally everything on the network to now only TTG and Twit since only those still have some semblance of that old twit feel.  My question is was this change premeditated to give the network a more professional feeling or just something that simply occurred due to the nature of the beast of a growing business?
So you're saying the Petaluma police are in on the lie too? Are they lying about getting the threat call directly to the police department?  http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/3708231-181/bogus-bomb-threat-prompts-downtown?page=1  
I wish Tech TV didnt merge with and into G4?
Downhill? :) I actually hope it improves. Since the great breakup (tom leaving) it has been mostly a slide towards the end. All my very humble opinion
We did recently change the license to no-derivatives (Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial No-Derivatives 4.0 International license) due to a couple of trolls. But when people ask we almost always give permission. 
What other platform options do they have that has a wide reach? 
Long time fan of TWiT and old time watcher of TechTV so congrats on The New Screen Savers!  I do miss TWiT Photo however.  Any possibility of having some extended segments on Photography on The New Screen Savers?  I think it would be a great format since it's a TV show. 
No one would after todays show! How did you get Neil Young?
[deleted]
Every single one. It's a LOT of work and costs a lot of money to launch a show. We only launch a show if I love the idea and really want to do it.   We only cancel them due to lack of audience. So you can pretty much assume I hated canceling every one of them. 
You brought it back, eh? It's about damned time.  Ok, so here's my question: What is going to differentiate you from the scores of youtube channels that already cover every aspect of technology out there?  I'm rooting for you, don't get me wrong, but I'm wondering how you're going to stand out.  Oh, and I was glued to your show when it was on TechTV. Really something special.
I watched your show all the time when I was in middle school, and I grew up to be a middle school computer technology teacher, so how about that for success!  Will you be bringing back the "Dark Tip" segment?
We did it when we launched TWiT, actually. Colleen built an amazing liquid cooled behemoth. We did a series of shows around it then gave it away on the air.   It's probably time to do another Ultimate Gaming Machine, though!
Steve G's "Health Episodes" seemed to be well received. I imagine you're hesitant to do a non-tech show, but have you considered a regular health/diet show?
Now that half of Windows Weekly and other shows seem to be about Frankensteining Linux containers onto Windows and sparking them to life with mucho buzzwords,   When are we going to see a Linux Weekly?  There's some awesome Linux podcasts out there. 
Megan:  I demand you bring back the howling on iPad Today!  Just kidding.  What's been the biggest challenge in "filling Sarah's shoes"?  
John is the original troll, but in a nice way. He made a name for himself by being the anti-editor (that was actually his title at MacUser). I think that's part of his appeal - he's the antidote to the generally fawning coverage tech gets in the trade press. 
Hi TWiT's,   As it's clear TWiT has become a beast most entrepreneurs can only imagine occurring and with investors like Jason on yesterday's Episode of TWIT saying they wouldn't touch in such little words as it has to do with media...  Breaking the odds and mastering it all, do you have plans on introducing a way to get other up and comings or those who are trying to build networks that have watched and studied your platform- will you try to grab them instead of them making the next TWiT?
Hey Leo, I used to LOVE it when you traveled to and covered special events like E3, MakerFaire, CES, etc, nowadays you send other hosts to cover them. Do you think we will ever see you back covering an event like that again?
[deleted]
For this reason I hope Ham Nation continues to work out.  
What's your favorite metal band?
I had hoped TNSS Would be crowd-sourced. Are you fearful that doing a show outside your current monetization model would alienate your sponsors?
Is the next step, now that the new Screensavers is up and running, to revive Call for Help ???
I really wanted to reprise the show where Woz gave Kevin a Macbook to use for his first time back on the Internet. I've proposed the idea Woz, but he says he's really really busy these days and almost always on the road, so maybe it won't happen. I will get Mitnick though. He's been on before. 
Seek medical attention. Not joking.
The people who come back again and again are all there because I love hanging with them. TWiT is really just me and my buddies talking about stuff we really like. I only work with the best people - we leave the pains behind!
Good question! I think we'll keep it for six months or so. 
You appear to be very blunt and open with your viewers when it comes to conflicts you are having with other members in your community of tech broadcasters. Has there been any occasion in which you regretted making something public, or thought you had gone too far?
When you guys are discussing something visual in your shows, like a video for example, could you please make it a role that you will also *describe it* to us poor audio listeners who sometimes have no idea what you guys are laughing about? 
[deleted]
The trademark lapsed.
We did offer Patrick a full-time job when he left Rev3 because we wanted him to co-host with me. But he's happy doing his own shows (and didn't like the idea of commuting to Petaluma on Saturdays). So I'm just going to have to settle for getting him in every month or so. 
The ladies love the Dark Tip, if I recall.
dude, we are Leo fans. You are fighting a winless battle. No real fan cares about your site. You are not converting fans, the only thing you are doing is having a circle jerk with other Leo haters, whats the point in that?
It's been a long long time since TSS left the air. We did try to make a deal with them but they showed little interest, so after a couple of years of trying, we just decided to go it alone. And I'm thrilled!
question for Megan: how did you get started working at TechTV?
Any dark tips?
How often do you think you can get Patrick Norton on the show?  There is a dynamic between you two that is unmatched, and I've never seen it remotely replicated on any other show.  Thanks for bringing back TSS.
Only the shows I either erased or forgot to record! I accidentally erased a FLOSS Weekly twice in the early days. I had to send Chris DiBona a gift basket to get him to record it a third time.   These days no one lets me touch the recordings. 
Been a fan since '02/'03, and you are one of the three radio hosts I really enjoy! And I've been really enjoying the shows on TWiT, as well as TNSS! (It's like I'm back to my childhood! :D) But... As much as I enjoy having the Low quality youtube vids of the old Screen Savers (And the rest of the TechTV and GOOD G4 shows, although I do feel a bit bad for watching those), any chance there may be a way to get some of those old tapes and such from Comcast, especially since they let the trademark lapse?  I know they are pretty outdated in this day and age, but they are still awesome to watch, and I hate to think that they are playing Jinga with those tapes! Unless getting those would be cost more than the trademark and dealing with Comcast, then I am fine with the youtube rips!  Also, have you considered adding a Sci Fi or Comic podcast to the TWiT lineup? I would figure it may not be popular, but I would love to see a show like that on TWiT!
Leo, is it true you paid for Jason, Gina and Jeff's Google Glass?   (I think Gina admitted to it on 5by5).  What's the biggest waste of money you spent at TWiT?
Hi Leo, I have to say that TWiT does a great job of making fans feel like family. What TWiT show has most surprised you with its success? 
It was great meeting you. My favorite TSS stories are about the fathers and sons who watched together. (And mothers and daughters.)  As for the most influential tech of the past 10 years, the Internet changed everything, but the iPhone put it in your pocket. It, and its clones, have brought technology to the masses.   As for the next 10 - I think augmented reality will be a game changer. 
Sarah Lane. I miss her so much!  I also have a blast every time I work with PadreSJ. 
Is it true you fired her?
Road trip! Are we there yet?
I'm sure I will eventually. He did a drunken show with JRY that really hurt my feelings. They were also very cruel to my wife. That's pretty unforgivable, but hey, if I can hug Calacanis anything's possible. 
[Video of said blowup...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IsV-lgnAjps)
He also compliments Leo often.
Was this the infamous "Butt Cuba"?
Harry McCracken's wife, Marie Domingo, made the connection. I'm eternally grateful - Neil is one of my stone cold heroes. I hope I wasn't squeeing too badly!
I'm at home in my underwear. Do you really want that? I guess I could Meerkat it.
Who is your favorite Punk Rock band?
Tom Merritt was my favorite TWiT personality, but I've honestly been impressed with the job Mike Elgan is doing. He always comes across with a measured and polite demeanor while still keeping discussion moving along at a brisk pace. 
Hey, thanks for getting TSS back! My question for you is, what is the best kind of horsehair plaster? I'm buying a schitt speaker and I would like to place some horsehair plaster in it.  All jokes aside, do you ever plan on doing a Late Night esque show again on TWiT? I really loved the format of Late Night Tech (back when Erik Lanigan was the host, RIP) and would love to see one of you do something like that.
Hey Leo, glad to see ScreenSavers back!  How about a ScreenSavers on how to build a Mame arcade cabinet/ PC? Bonus is you'd have an arcade machine for the brickhouse break room.  Say hi to Padre. Us Book Guys miss him.
She's mentioned Tom Merritt as getting her the job in the past, but I'll let her speak for herself.
Waiting for link :) 
On second thoughts...
No way Leo, you were just the right combination of fanboy and interviewer. Neil was really down to earth and awesome as well. 
A long (long) time ago, you did a show with They Might Be Giants where you announced a joint venture to fix their Dial-A-Song service. This obviously never came to be, though you'll be happy to know that the service was recently resurrected here in the year 2015.  So what happened there?
It seems like the hosts that do shows regularly (TWiG, WW) only do those shows and never show up on other shows. Is this intentional on TWiT's part or simply because the hosts don't want to be on that much?
Come on? Really? Mike seems more concerned with making some rambling point vs running a show.  Its really almost unlistenable. And i try. every week or so. once. for 30 seconds.  
Leo, How come on the first call you guys said he's fine with 20 megabit even though he is paying for 50 megabit? you didn't even ask him what service he uses or what modem. If you have a docsis 2.0 cable modem and comcast, you will not reach past 20-30 megabits. If you have a Docsis 3.0 it may solve his problem.
How did you get hooked up with Steve Martin too? I don't think I would have been able to carry on a coherent conversation with him.
No, she took a job at TechCrunch.
Did the lawyers force you to change the format of the new show?
OK I'm live. mrk.tv/1KHXdS0 - watching me type will be SO exciting.
Hopefully we'll see him on the New Screen Savers sometime at least. Martin Sargent covering the weird things on the internet is hilarious and can be fascinating.
Long Live TSS? You bet!  Glad you took my suggestion to do the AMA here.
It was sad to see the Giz Wiz go, but I'm glad he's continuing it on his own... and that last episode was really great! You two are very funny together. Thanks for everything you do, Leo!
Love the show, keeps me entertained and informed in Japan. Has inspired me to get back into IT after15 years away. Any advice? Moving to California in November with my wife from Japan, no experience except for small jobs here there for friends and A+ finished this week. Network+ before I leave! Help!? Or should I just fly a drone over TWIT to find the answers and Padre's collection?
it was so great to see your guys get back together for The New Screen Savers?
Yes, you're in the minority. I love Harry and I think he offers great insight on every show. But you don't have to love every one. That's why God gave you prehensile thumbs.
[deleted]
Please no, come back, dressed, to the studio!
Hey Leo, any plans to have Chris Pirillo on The New Screen Savers? I don't know if I've ever seen him on TWiT and would love to see him back on TWiT, or what about an interview on Triangulation?  ..I guess I just want to see you and Chris back together in a show.
the pcper leaderboard is amazing. Definitely need to include those guys on builds
Hey, are you the guy from the warlizard gaming forums?
[deleted]
Watch the excellent interview Kevin Rose did with me on the most recent Foundation... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gNvzpx4KrXs. About 54 minutes in I talk about the future of TWiT.   I think we're on a roll right now and I'm very bullish about the future. I'd love to be a full-blown, 24x7, IPTV channel. 
So glad to see The Screen Savers back ( I grew up on post-Tech TV G4 instead,crazy !)   Congratulations !!  Is this the craziest tech news season you guys ever got to work ( Year and a half into 8th Gen Consoles &amp; Windows 10 / DirectX12 news ) ?  And going along with all that, do you guys foresee much cheaper PC Gaming technology to compete against consoles? (lower SSD and chipset prices )
Bruce, don't sell yourself short. You are far from humble. And when you build your own network you can do anything you want with it. But I have to ask, why do you bother watching at all?   PS I hope mom gives you fishsticks tonight like you asked. 
Did you know that you bite your lip when you're concentrating...?
Ham Nation is a bona fide hit. Those guys are doing a great job!
Thanks for the answer Leo, I didn't expect an answer. 
Hey leo! My name is Adam and I'm a long time ZDTV, /TechTv/Twit watcher! We actually meet the first time you did Regis and kelly! I had my screen savers t-shirt on!   Is it hard to get tickets to sit in a Twit? Would love to see it when I'm in town!
[deleted]
Hey Leo,  You talk about your shows disintermediating and how you side step traditional media for conversational content.  Why is it then that when you formatted a video game show around a very TV traditional format? Especially when there are a number of successful gaming podcasts in a similar format to your conversational TWIT shows?
Howdy Leo! Will there be an official Twit app this year for Android?
Having just started my own podcast I ask if you could isolate one trait/quality that is paramount in a podcast what would it be?  
He's a businessman, man.
Hey Leo! Been watching you since I was a little kid in the mid 90s on ZDTV! Okay so you brought TSS back, any chance we'll be seeing Call for Help coming back too?   Thanks for your years of entertainment
[deleted]
Hi Leo, as a long time fan of your shows since the days of Tech TV and Screen Savers days, since the New Screen Savers debuted, any chance of it some day going back to television or is it just going to stay on Twit tv?
Steve sent me a direct message on Twitter about five years ago. He said "Great admirer of yours, Leo. No need to respond." He's kind of weirdly humble and shy that way.   We have corresponded ever since, but I wouldn't dare to call him a friend. I once called myself a "fan" of his, and he practically yelled at me. I don't think he likes that idea of fandom.
[deleted]
Thanks for the response. I just watched you type this out on Meerkat!  edit: cool photo!  edit2:  Hi Leo!  
How come you started with earphones and why did you decide to sell Beats?
How do you feel about your conduct leading to the suicide of a young man? I'm upset.  
I could never fill her shoes, but I have stolen her shoes. Biggest challenge: I'm allergic to cats. 
I've never seen an AMA answer this honest and vulnerable. 
[deleted]
That is correct. Tom Merritt hired me to work on The Screen Savers website, to which I will forever be grateful. Leo and Patrick encouraged me to do segments on the show and the rest is history. 
Sarah is awesome. I miss her too!
Like many others here, I've been a fan since the ZDTV days. You brought tech news into my home before we had internet installed, so needless to say, you helped guide my interests into what eventually became a career. For that, I thank you!  Speaking of careers, I really enjoy what you have done with TWiT and would love to do something similar. My expertise is in tech, video, music, vegan cuisine, and instructional design (Yes, I'm a member of the very appropriate Geeks Life.) What advice do you have in turning these interests into a career similar to your own? I wouldn't be against working remotely for TWiT. ;-)
The meerkat stream of you typing and talking at the same time definitely has a *You've Got Mail* vibe to it. 
Why do you call TNSS a television show? It is a podcast, and has the production values of a podcast.
Cool! Watching you now.
Not everyone who leaves TWiT is fired, by a long shot but I've had to fire my share of employees. That's what happens when you own a business. It's always horrible. But we can't talk publicly about it to protect both parties. Unfortunately that means I can't (or shouldn't) respond to allegation from trolls, etc. I have been too talkative in the past, and I apologize for that. I had to learn the hard way that it's nobody's business but the people directly involved.   I love transparency, but unfortunately, I can't always be as forthright as I'd like.  
Most likely cause IPTV. You can watch TWIT on a Roku and other platforms.
Hi, Leo! (currently watching you on Meerkat)  I watched TNSS today, and it brought back a wave of nostalgia!  I wanted to say thank you for everything.  I still have my How To Build A Computer VHS from back in the day.  I think i got it for christmas when i was in fifth grade!  My mom still blames (in a good way) you for making me the nerd that I am.  In fact, TechTV/The Screen Savers is the only reason we kept DirecTV back in the day!  I graduated last year with a Bachelors' of Computer Science, and I really, _really_ owe you a huge debt of gratitude.  What advice would you have for someone that is at an impressionable age like I was back in the day?
What is this "butt cuba" of which you speak?
[deleted]
[deleted]
How did you convince Mike Elgan to put an end to his world travels and work for you? Or were his travels coming to an end anyway? (watching you type the reply to this write now.. spooky)
Well I believe Brian did try to meetup with you in Ausin but was rebuffed? [Screenshot](https://totaldrama.net/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/Screenshot-2014-10-24-19.50.32-893x1024.png)
[deleted]
Martin is already scheduled to co-host TNSS on 5/23/15.
So, everybody knows that [Adam Sessler's preferred drug of choice while live on air is some kind of upper](https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=21&amp;v=PE_9WyvjKWo) (I'm guessing amphetamines).  Hypothetically, What would *your* drug of choice be while on air? I always pegged you for an LSD guy.   Patrick Norton always gave me the impression of a man who preferred Shrooms and listening to obscure music like Moby.   Also, How the hell did Martin Sargent .... become successful, have his own show, whatever? I mean, What?
Hey Leo, long time fan since the ZDTV days. Just curious, are you still not taking a salary from TWiT and getting the majority of your income from the "real radio" show and tips? Keep up the good work!
How is Floss Weekley doing? I hope it won't get axed any time soon.
what do you do with all your old devices? Absolutely nothing ages quicker then consumer tech. Do you give them away to guests?  Do you get a tax break when you buy them? 
Martin was on [Tech News 2Night] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zxm1Izt4QzI) last week. He made me cry. So, yes he'll be on again.
I'm usually on the air for four hours every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, then about six hours on Saturday and Sunday.  Of course there's a lot of other stuff to do to keep TWiT running. That's why I have Lisa and the team. They work hard so I can go home and sit in my hot tub. 
I mean that it doesn't look at all like television. you've got hosts skyping from their bedrooms using webcams and people using heil mics. doesnt have any production value. ad reads are also not like real television
Hi Leo! I know you don't like marketing, but I have a question. I discovered TWiT last December through a Google search that led me to an All About Android episode. I am now hooked on TWiT all the time since then! I would have loooved to watch TWiT earlier but I was just not aware of it. Do you or the TWiT marketing team think about doing very targeted ads (toward IT professionals especially) in order to get people like me who would be interested but are not aware of the network yet? Thank you for what you bring to the community.
Right?! --- How fun would that be? A techno Airstream and maybe an RV?   Geek Roadtrip?!
As often as he'll do it. Saturdays are tough for him because of his kids, but we'll get him as much as possible!
Me too. :)  The Screen Savers made me get into making tech content.
Do you write everything on TN2?  How do you determine what is newsworthy?  When will you be on TNSS?    If you put Sarah's shoes on eBay, I'm sure it'll sell for lots!  (Because of the weirdos.)
I can't disagree with you on that, lol!
Jim is in stealth mode right now. We had a chance to chat with him at NAB 2015. He's got some exciting stuff coming up. :)
Do you think TWiT has lost its charm as it's grown out of the cottage and if so are there any plans to engage more with the TWiT community?  Using Meerkat for the AMA feels like the old days of (Inside) TWiT, thank you for doing that. 
This is incorrect. We have OPPOSABLE thumbs, and prehensile hands. 
I've got the ouija board out and am sending her a dinner order now. Hopefully She'ol has food delivery. 
I would have talked with him gladly. He did not come see us. In fact, he's never apologized at all. 
[deleted]
You can get tickets to any show at [twit.tv/contact] (http://twit.tv/contact). 
4k Twit??
[deleted]
Would you ever consider having a studio in for instance London?
Agreed. I always send people to the pcper leaderboard when they ask. 
Hey Leo! I'm a long-time fan, and grew up watching your shows on TechTV. I remember having my Rio Karma and listening to the first episodes of TWiT (and ROTSS) and loving every second.   Are there any chances we could see other favorites from the old days resurface? I would love a new Call For Help, and with all the resources available now it'd be incredibly informative. I learned a lot of troubleshooting basics from Call For Help, and kept watching when it was only produced in Canada.  I hope TWiT continues strong into the future. You've always been someone I look up to, and I can only hope my children one day will as well. Thanks for all that you do!
[deleted]
Not sure if you are being sarcastic but when you said "Fuck You!" to Arrington the Youtube CC plugged in "Butt Cuba". Brushwood and Justin Robert Young did a skit on NSFW Show about it.  I may be misremembering though.
Hey Leo, any plans to get Chris Pirillo on a TWiT show?
LEO! I've been watching and listening to you for a long time now.  I even got my wife listening to you on the drive to work on weekends.  Thank you for all you've provided to give insight and exposure to the tech world.  What would you do differently (if anything) building TWiT and keeping/letting go the different hosts over the years?
&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;
I write most everything on TN2. Some days when I'm swamped (or I need to get my nails done) Jason Cleanthes will write some of it for me. I didn't really steal Sarah's shoes, but I do have some old shoes I might try to pretend are hers on eBay. Is there still an eBay?
AAAAGGGHHH!!! Megan Marrone!   I had the biggest crush on you as a teenager. You and Morgan Webb. You always seemed smarter though, which made me favor you more.   Do you remember the whole "vote for which ZDTV Female personality to pose for Playboy"? What the hell, right?
I last saw you at SXSW when you crowd surfed at the live Diggnation, I still have the video! Do you still go to SXSW?
Hi Leo, as a long time fan of your shows since the days of Tech TV and Screen Savers days, since the New Screen Savers debuted, any chance of it some day going back to television or is it just going to stay on Twit tv?
I will do a Mother's Day tech segment on the show this Saturday. I am working on it right now!
When you bring Patrick back, will he bring his kilt with him too?
Hi Leo, thanks for bringing us TWiT. Is there an active forum to discuss each episode of the show? Other than the live chat I have very little luck finding an outlet to engage and discuss on things that happened in each episode, it could be something very beneficial considering how big the community is.
Live chat is it. We used to have fora but that seems kind of old skool. Maybe a subreddit?   We kind of rely on our community to create such things as needed. 
You DO know what's worn under a kilt, right? :_
Oh, that would be awesome! I was looking into making a Gaming/Editing computer for school, so another UGM segment (Or an entire show) Would be a great resource!
Why did u leave TechTv? I was heartbroken!
Sign me up! :)
I was mad at Patrick - he didn't wear the kilt on Saturday. :-( I'll make sure he does next time!
The response: "Nothing is worn! Everything's in perfect working order!" :-D
We will get Jim on The New Screen Savers soon, but he will also be on Triangulation (TWiT's interview show) next Monday, May 11.
Favorite non-TWiT tech personality?
IRC is pretty old skool, too.
Not sure if he still does but Leo originally had an open door policy. You just had to message them ahead of time and let them know when you wanted to stop by.  
I really felt that mainstream TV was not a good fit for the kind of stuff I like to do. They kept wanting to dumb it down.   Thank goodness for the Internet. We have a relatively small audience (well bigger than TechTV did, but not exactly American Idol sized) that shares our deep interest in tech. I wouldn't want to dilute that to reach the larger audiences broadcast TV requires.  But if the check were really big.... hmmmm
How do you and Lisa keep work and home separate? (or don't you) I can imagine there are advantages and disadvantages to working with/for your spouse.
[deleted]
How do you think you guys can attract sponsors for that type of 24/7 tech programming? I think the industry has grown big enough to support a venue like that and maybe still make a profit?
Can't believe I actually watched Leo read out and type this reply live on meerkat. The world is an amazing place.
He won't dare to say DTNS.
No we skipped the last two SxSWs  - it's pretty hard to top that crowd surf. 
Any plans to make for some better show notes? The wiki never really worked for that... And now seems to be gone.. There are many times when I'm listening in the car, hear something I want to check out, but then go to the show page and there is rarely any info there. ... It'd be nice if there were links to some of the thngs that were talked about in each episode.  The most recent thing I looked for that I couldn't find was the whisky mentioned on the last WW.
I figured Leo would skip this.
There is also /r/tnss. (which I moderate, and would happily mod TWiT staff if they want).
People always think brunettes are smarter. Why is that? I do remember the Playboy thing. I did not participate and I would love to tell you that it was for political reasons, but I don't remember them ever asking. 
That's a really hard question. I'm so happy with where we are right now I'd hesitate to change anything. Even the painful stuff!
Spend millions on your own, just like Leo.~
I need more amazing content - I am out of inventory.
We haven't contacted Chris yet, but we will. 
Thank you for the response. Love Twit and shall always continue to watch it! 
To get tickets for any TWiT.tv recordings send an e-mail to Tickets@TWiT.tv telling us what show you want to attend, and when... 
Another Kilt? 
Hi Leo, Loved your interview with Neil today. I couldn't believe your moderator @dan was so rude about the Pono. Is he like this often? 
The first episode is already up, FYI. 
[deleted]
I feel like the Call for Help need is satisfied by the six hours of call in radio I do every weekend as the Tech Guy. It's pretty much the same stuff. For now, I think we want to put all our energies into The New Screen Savers and make it a perfect hour every week. That's hard!
Hey Leo any plans for comics podcast on twit?
I am the queen of running the business and Leo's the king of content.  Of course there are pros/cons but we are both great at what we do so it just works.  And he's amazing!
I would love to have satellite studios. London. (Lisa wants Paris) NYC. The technology to do that, fiber optic cable is very expensive, though. When a more affordable way to uplink emerges, we'll look into it. Frankly I'm not empire building here. I just want to do what we already do better. 
how were you guys able to get the Screen Savers name? didn't they come after you when you started called your first pod cast the Revenge of the screen savers?
Hi Leo, do you think Apple will ever allow you to attend keynotes again?
Former active listener to your Twit network?  I actively stopped listening and supporting your show for the following reasons.  It seems to me that your active members of TWIT network aren't allowed to guest on Tom Merrit's Daily Tech News Show.  Why is this?  Tom seems like a very cool guy and (it seems) while you are being politically correct in this thread, you are actively blacklisting/not allowing your hosts to even just drop by on Tom's show.  Also banning Adam Curry for his politically incorrect belief of being a moon landing denier seems to be kind of petty.  Although I do not agree with Adam's beliefs, he shared honestly his opinion of the matter.  You respond by banning him?  Really?    
Do you really want to see me in 4k???  In truth, when Alex Lindsay started doing 1080p Macbreak video I thought he was crazy. No one could stream it without dropping frames. Now it's commonplace. So never say never. In 10 years, we may be 8k!
Glad to hear and see you've made it work! Been listening for a long time, thanks for all that you guys do and best wishes for continued success.
Hey Leo, when are you going to get MKBHD (Marques Brownlie) on This Week in Tech? You had him on This Week in YouTube and I think you'd have a blast with him on TWiT.
They let the trademark lapse. 
Are you kidding me? No. I don't think TWiT has lost it's charm.   But if you think so, I am sure you'll find many places on the Internet that charm you more. That's why I love Internet broadcasting. Let a million flowers bloom!
We've had MKBDH on TWiT a few times... He's a great guest!
Any interest in starting a more enterprise focused KnowHow? More firewalls, switches, and routers and less RasPi?  Thanks for shows like TWiET, Security Now, and Windows Weekly. It keeps me focused on getting a job in the field.  Just heard I live a stones throw away from Kate Botello! You should come visit Traverse City sometime!
Leo, my favorite regular guest is Aaron Newcomb.  How do you pay someone like him or at all?  He's sort of a cohost for floss weekly but not really and a guest on other shows like TWIG and AAA.  Sorry if the question is too personal.
Any heat with Tom Merritt? Listening to the 10th year anniversary, i didn't hear Tom's name mention invited to host? Same question for Veronica?
[deleted]
I'd love to do more in-depth "Know How" style content for TWiET... I'm just running out of hours in the day. :(
This is something we debate all the time. I prefer to grow organically via word of mouth, but I would like to reach everyone who would enjoy our stuff. I just don't want to waste money talking to people who wouldn't.  If you think more people should be watching, tell your friends!!
[deleted]
Really? Those must have been the few Sunday's where I had better things to do (I almost always keep my schedule clear on Sundays just for TWiT, not sure if that's sad or not...)  Anyway, good to know he's been on This Week in Tech, hope to see him on there again soon! Thanks Padre.
So Leo,  Why "Netcasts?"  I know "podcasts" may have been confusing when the iPod was a thing, but nobody knows what Netcasts are.
A lot of them are passed along to other staffers (Fr. Robert has my old Oneplus One. Chad has my old Pebble. etc.) Some we sell on Gazelle. And I've been known to hand something to an audience member from time to time.   Plus our basement is really big and full of crap.   Everything we buy for the shows is a business deduction. Stuff I buy for personal use is not deductible. 
Watching the meerkat stream...What kind of keyboard do you have? Obviously mechanical. Any preference for a specific key switch?
It's not a big show but it's important. I consider it a pro bono broadcast. 
Oh god no. That didn't work out at all. About half my income comes from the radio show. The other half I take as draw from TWiT. My ex-wife gets all the rest. 
Leo, When you interviewed Mitch Kapor on Triangulation, you mentioned that in the 90's Microsoft attempted to replace the Worldwide Web with their own protocols. Do you remember what Microsoft called that program?
Do you still do Ham radio yourself?
What do you think of Kim Komando and her show? I see she's streaming video now (and charging to watch). I heard (from someone who used to work there) that she "hates" you. Is this just competitive rivalry, or is there some history there?
The 10th anniversary show was for the guests who were on the first TWiT and JCD.  We didn't invite former or existing hosts to be on it.
We take care of all of our outside hosts.
Does everybody know that? I would be very surprised to learn that. Adam is just one of those guys with lots of energy. Don't assume that people with more energy than you are high.   I did a radio show once on acid. I don't know how good it was, but I enjoyed it. These days I can't really use on or off air. I don't have the brain cells to spare.   Marty is one of the funniest guys I know. But to each his own.
I didn't not expect Mike to say yes when we offered him a job, but he did. I think his wife wanted to have a kitchen to call her own. But for whatever reason, we're really glad he decided to end his peripatetic ways here in Sonoma County. 
Hi Leo, Chris from GeekDad.com here! We met at NAB this year and I wanted to say thank you and I'm so excited by the New Screen Savers! My question is about hosting good conversations, how do you prepare for interviews/shows where you're not a deep subject matter expert. I often feel like a good host can keep a conversation going no matter the topic but I feel like I always over prepare out of fear of sounding like an idiot. Do you have any pointers? 
When are you going to have a BLACK WOMAN on TWiT?
[deleted]
Awwww that's so sweet. You mom is so sweet. Thank her for me!  You owe ME nothing - just pay it forward.   I always tell young people to find their passion and do it. Don't worry about anything else. If you're doing what you love the universe aligns behind you. 
This was always my favourite moment from the radio show: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHERqRLvU8k   Do you have a favourite/most memorable moment from your years of broadcasting?
[deleted]
YOU have the production values of a podcast. 
[deleted]
We find it best for our employees to be in studio with us. But continue to follow your passion! And find yourself a "Lisa!"
No one could say you're slacking off! Please keep up the amazing work, and your InterOp coverage has been great!
Sorry you're upset. I hope you feel better soon. 
I saw the first episode, and no, they just did what they used to do on TSS which was to take calls. I know the difference ;)
Big shout out to Padre from an enterprise IT guy who is also a clergy person. I'd love to know more about how you got involved in IT and how you manage to balance your ecclesiastical responsibilities with your technolust; have you always done both things? 
The question intended to prompt thought about how the growth of TWiT has forced it to become less transparent and more guarded. It's a natural evolution and I was curious as to whether you miss the days in the cottage when there wasn't as much reason for you to worry.   The question was not about content and more about the evolution of the business itself.  It's a shame you didn't read the full question and instead decided to take it as an attack.  
That's the truth. I would never have thought in a million years he would disclose the actual truth for such an event.  Good to know. I always knew BB was too nice on camera. Man he's good. Unsubscribed from his YT and Twitter after hearing this.
I still remember the day my friend called me up after hearing you or Patrick on TSS read an email telling him to get well soon after he had surgery. To this day I haven't seen the episode myself since I fell asleep! I was in 8th grade then, so 2002. I've since gone on to receive a Master's degree in Information Science (teaching kids about technology as a librarian in a school now!), and I owe a lot to you and the whole crew as there really wasn't a golden tech resource like TSS. That look and quality of the shows has had some influence on my Youtube channel, where I talk about preserving cancelled games (youtube.com/ptoponline ), so I just wanted to say thank you for TechTV, TWiT, and everything else you have done to promote technology. I wouldn't be here otherwise!  So my question is, what has been the most surprising person you've heard about that was a regular watcher of TechTV?
Leo- thanks for the info-tainment.  I used to watch TechTv and learned a great deal about PC building from you and your crew. Loved Patrick, Megan, Morgan and the rest of the gang. On of my biggest reqrets was never attending a live recording. I'm in the area, but was tethered to my job. One of my prized possessions is an actual screen savers mug.   I'd like to name a pizza after you... What would be on the Leo Laporte  Signature Pizza?
Pretty sure that's just the standard Apple keyboard.
Thanks so much for that great comment. I'm really thrilled about how TechTV and TWiT has touched so many people.   I am always surprised when I hear about celebrities who listen - like Steve Martin and Roger McGuinn, but it's people like you we really do it for. 
Hey Wil! -- Did I meet you at NAB?  I've ALWAYS been in IT. I ran my own IT consultation firm before I became a Jesuit (and before it was even a thing) -- My passion for tech is why I joined the Jesuits: the mantra is "finding God in all things" and I was told that they would use my skills and talents in tech.  I created the online presence for my province, then started a guerrilla presence for the Jesuits when YouTube become a thing, then moved on to making policy for Jesuits around the country as the Director of National Vocation Promotion.   So my technolust isn't just tolerated by my superiors (and I'm talking about ALL the way up the chain)... it's demanded of me. :) 
So weird listening to you answer my question on Meerkat. At least now I heard it! 
[deleted]
Persistence worked for me.
Now you're making me hungry. Pizza is my FAVORITE food! Where do you pizzify?  A Leo Laporte pizza would have lots of ham on it. Ha ha. Actually I prefer sausage and meatball and pepperoni and garlic. And that, my friends, is why I can't eat pizza any more. :-(
I'm so sad to see The Giz Wiz leave the TWiT network. It was on the network for so long. What is your greatest memory from The Giz Wiz?  For readers:  [The Same Dunb Show is being supported and continued on Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/gizwiz)
[deleted]
That was one of my favorite moments. I teared up hearing again.   I really am lucky doing the job I do. I feel so blessed that every moment is special. I know that sounds corny, but it's true. 
Quite the blurry line in your business. Your personal experiences are material for the show, show experiences for personal etc. It's the perfect scenario!
Yup. I posted before I could see it.  Sounds better than I thought it would (non-apple user that I am).  Still curious if Leo has a preference for a mechanical key switch or if the Apple keyboard is that much better...
Hi Leo and crew!  Have you ever thought of doing a more in-depth photography show? The Tech Guy segments are great, but I think a show dedicated to photography would be something I'd really enjoy.
I didn't get a chance to see you at NAB, you had so many groupies there! What a fascinating story and its so refreshing to hear that the Jesuits even have an IT policy! I do a lot of work in local churches here in Phoenix, trying to help them understand technology and keep their data safe. Keep up the great work!
Love you GeekDad!  I agree that any interview can be great even if you're underprepared (and I, sad to say, often am). The key is to be interested in the person you're talking with, and to listen carefully. People always will give you clues about what to ask. Your job is to get to their passion place and let them lose.   In fact, I think over preparation can get in the way. If I know too much about something I often want to show it instead of just shutting up and listening for the cues. 
[deleted]
Really made my day... week... month... year to hear from you.  Enjoyed watching you answer my question!  I'm glad I'm not the only one that thinks my mom is great.  I'll let her know you agree with me.  LOOOOOONG time listener, and I don't have any plans of stopping.  Take care!
His opinions also change over the years in reaction to competing products and companies. Which I like but I can see why people are used to one person being a diehard fan no matter what.  Leo talking about the iphone 4 or 5 vs android is very different than leo talking about the iphone 6 vs current android options.
Any advice to podcasters inspired by your shows and example on pitfalls to avoid?  Thanks for everything you're doing at TWiT!
Honestly, I have never listened to Kim.   Her people did try to steal KFI from me by calling the Program Director and telling her I was a flaming liberal. Makes me laugh just to think about it. But I don't hold any animosity toward her.   From what I've read in USA Today, she's not super techy, but I'm sure she has her place. 
I'm in the south bay. "Pizza My Cart". Wood fired Italian pies. Best of luck with the new endeavors. I hope to teach my two young ones all you and your crew have taught me.  Bravo Leo!   
I don't alas. But the interview should still be at http://twit.tv/tri. 
I miss Web Drifter.  :(
Yep, the Apple extended keyboard. I like wired keyboards. 
[deleted]
Episode 100.  http://twit.tv/show/triangulation/100
Yeah and because of that I have to use the word podcast, but it's just wrong. Do you use an iPod to listen? Also the word implies a hobbyist show. I consider myself a professional broadcaster using the Internet for distribution. We do shows, not podcasts.   I liked the word "netcast" because it played on the net and casting a net, etc. But I was the only one who liked it, alas. 
What do you think would have happened to TechTV if G4 never bought it? 
Do you think TWiT will continue once you've hung up the mic?
I listen to TWiT and No Agenda regularly. They occasionally talk about you and TWiT but I never got a feeling like Adam was that into being on your show. In either case I love you both, perhaps you'll someday be able to find some common ground.
I hope so. My son wants to keep it going. But I'm afraid the subject matter will shift to skateboarding and dubstep. 
The biggest mistake is doing it for the money. (No, seriously) ... You can't think you're going to make a living, or even spare cash with your broadcast. It must be something you love. Something you can do every week.  Speaking of "every week", you need to stick to a regular release schedule: preferably once a week. You'd be amazed how much of your hard-earned audience will leave if you skip even a single episode. 
It seems like you have been letting go a little bit and letting other hosts take over some of the shows. How much longer until you retire and do you have anyone in mind to take over as the main talent? I heard you once say that you thought Merritt would be that guy until he moved.
That's a great question. I think the problem with doing a cable channel is that it's so expensive that you have to make it mass market. Even before G4 bought us we were heading in a very bad direction, dumbing the content down, and doing tangential content, in an effort to woo a general audience. In doing so we risked losing the niche audience that loved us so much.  That's why I started TWiT. Doing it on the Internet means we don't need to reach a mass audience - we do very well with the niche audience - so we can do exactly the programming our niche wants without concessions to mass appeal. 
Cheers Leo!  Thanks for doing this.  Do you still have anything from the original TSS studio around?  Care to show and tell on meerkat?  How do you prevent burnout in an industry that changes so frequently?  You always seem like you genuinely enjoy doing this, and considering the volume of content you turn out, that surprises me.  Keep up the good work.  It's nice to be able to send your videos as a resource for those that are not SuperTech^tm^ gifted.  edit: Ahhh, bummer.. Meerkat seized on me when you were showing off.. :(
Wouldn't it be cool if you were a guest on DTNS and Tom was a guest on TN2... at the SAME TIME!?  Think about it... 
I think every show is different really, so anything that works for me might not work for you. My advice is more general: Follow your passion. Do what you love. Your enthusiasm for the subject is what communicates and makes the podcast succeed. One should never podcast to make a living, That's asking an awful lot. Do it because you enjoy it, and because you love the community that you create. That community is really the reward.
Hey Leo, You read an email I sent on air at the end of the original screensavers once about 100 years ago. I don't even remember what it was it said but I remember it made me feel like the coolest nerd in town.  Anyway, my question.. What is your favorite screen saver? Do you even still use a screensaver?
Any chance of getting Nilay Patel back on TWiT?  I was excited when he was mentioned as a possible guest for the Net Neutrality debate. I don't know if you'll be able to get him back on with Dvorak though...
It's been a passion project since day one, and we've kept it up weekly for over a year! Glad to hear you say that's priority one!
We did, in fact, do a photography show. Catherine Hall and I did TWiT Photo for a couple of years (http://twit.tv/show/twit-photo) but it never really generated a very big audience and we weren't able to make it work.   I blame myself for that because I decided to focus on the art of photography more than the technology and science. So I think we will probably do another photography show with more of a how-to focus. But until then, that's one of the subjects we plan to cover heavily on The New Screen Savers. Catherine will be back on that show along with my many photographer friends. 
We haven't missed a week in over a year, holidays included. Now the pressure is even more on! ;-)
Hi Leo - love your shows - choose one Ladyhawke or Dragonslayer?
[deleted]
What does it take to get a long running, slightly tech related, podcast syndicated with your network? Do you do that kind of thig?
With several of the 'departed' TWiT shows findings apparent substantial contributions via Patreon, has this model ever been considered for under performing shows on the network?
I love working with Dick DeBartolo, and he's going to continue to be part of TWiT. I feel like The Giz Wiz show will do much better going on Patreon. OMGChad already is, and that's the model for what we're doing with the Giz Wiz. For shows that we can't afford to continue doing, crowdfunding is a great alternative.   I can't pick a favorite moment. Dick and I had so many belly laughs together. And I know we'll have many more. 
One of the things that has always made you stand out (in my opinion) is your broadcast voice. Did you train formally for broadcast before you got on the air way back when? Do you do anything with your guests or co-hosts to help them with their on-air voice? Any advice for people who want to work on developing their voice at  home? 
You're killing me. Wood fired pizza is the BEST. My favorite all-time pizza place is Pepe's in New Haven Ct. I still dream of their garlic and clam pies. 
Classic Screen Savers! on TWiT?
[deleted]
We tried but couldn't get Comcast to respond. We wanted to do a TSS retrospective with updated information. 
I am completely untrained, but listening to yourself for thousands of hours does help create a feedback loop. I think my voice is half genetics, half practice. You can improve the timbre and tone with practice. Use your diaphragm - get your voice out of your nose and deeper into your belly. Listen to yourself and practice. Also drink whisky and smoke cigars to excess. 
That's exactly what we did with OMGCraft and now The Giz Wiz. 
No, we do everything in house. 
Dragonlady. 
Thanks for taking the time to answer!
We ask Nilay all the time and I'm sure he'll be back soon. People get busy, but we keep asking!
Watching John C. Dvorak's show was the single most positive influence on my life during my teenage years. 
[deleted]
You ARE the coolest nerd in town. Still. Really.  I like the the breve walker screen saver. It learns how to walk as time goes by. 
[deleted]
Hi Leo! I got interested in tech from watching the original Screen Savers with my husband. I listen to almost all of your shows (LOVED your most recent TWIT) every week. My question is this: I'm a university professor and former public school teacher. I have such a hard time getting teachers interested in doing transformative tech with their students. Any advice on getting teachers more interested in tech?
He took my advice. I'm sorry   http://i.imgur.com/kXiw9xr.png
Do you have any regrets about building TWiT out in the middle of nowhere?    Can you talk about any notable missed opportunities caused by TWiT being headquartered in Petaluma?    If you were to do it all over again, would you stick with Petaluma or build TWiT closer to the city?
I'm getting married in October, any advice?
That's very exciting.
What's the ceiling fan called?
You poor guy, every damn time, eh? xD  But to be honest.. you're just everywhere.
Any chance of starting a video game based show? Reviews and upcoming could be sweet. Always love when you and Paul start on Xbox news on TWiW
Speaking of which, what happened with Mostly Photo?  That seemed to end very abruptly. 
Because the question was about the WiFi - 20mbps is correct for what his router can wirelessly output. It wasn't about his internet connection at all, as he said he got the full 50mbps on ethernet.
When will you get infamous apple curmudgeon John Siracusa on MacBreak?
Oh man! I think I'm more excited now than I was then! That screensaver sounds nifty!
They've had video game shows in the past and it didn't seem to really take off at that time. I think the problem is the personality that they need to make that work (Adam Sessler or Morgan Webb) are already doing things full-time on their own and probably don't have the time to devote to it.  I agree with you though, I wish TWiT would have a gaming podcast where they just covered the past weeks gaming news (not so much reviews).
Do you still talk to Sarah? How's she liking working for Techcrunch? Will she be on the New Screen Savers? 
Too funny. Lady Hawk is the correct answer :-) 
Every damned time.
[deleted]
I think it might be possible if we were in different dimensions of the space-time continuum. The truth is that we've never been on any show together, so unless you used to work at TechTV with us, you can't really know if we're not the same person.
Does it imply hobbyist? I mean, the podcasts (netcasts) I listen to come from you, NPR or CBS. I think the term podcast just implies a delivery mechanism.  Thanks for the great content on TWiT, I've been listening since RoTSS!
[deleted]
I hate this whole situation, it feels like I have to betray one or the other now because I like both. I have the bobblehead and 2 different TWiT shirts but no bricks, but I also am a small supporter of Night Attack on Patreon and have a &lt;&gt; (Diamond Club) shirt. It's just sad.
Oddly, it seems Leo is dodging every single question asked about Tom Merrit.
[deleted]
I agree with you! Thanks for the answer, Leo! :)
Did you find a CD reader so you could listen to Carl Franklin's new album yet? I engineered the track with John Scofield. :)
I wouldn't worry about it.  I don't think Leo nor Brian/Jury would ask any of the fans to choose sides.  They're both doing their own thing and are successful.  They know that a lot of this stuff is on air, so people are going to hear about it and the rumors would be out there anyway, but, in the end, they're all pros.  Like Leo said, hopefully some day they'll be able to move past it.
I like them both but Tom felt a bit too pessimistic for my taste. 
So what happened with Mostly Photo? It seemed to end abruptly and I never found out why.   On the matter of hosts,  I cannot tell you how intelligent and comprehensive is the commentary of Cristina Warren.  That lady is whip smart, there seems to be no topic on which she is not informed, and she's fun to boot. I know you've tried to hire her, and I encourage you to keep it up.   The return of Jason Calicanis was surprisingly excellent. I did not remember him being that good. Look forward to more!   And is Jolie O'Dell no longer coming on? I heard she got our of journalism? She was smart and fun too. 
Hi Leo, I love your show. Today on IPad Today (May the 4th be with you) you gave me this reddit and I would like to ask a question. What Apple devices do you like, and what new shopping apps are good on the iPad? And also, Where do the wacky hats come from? I love the new screen savers and hope it works well! Go Leo!
Might as well bring back TWiF while you're at it...yah?
I vaguely remember the decline in quality from before the G4 acquisition. It wasn't really a conscious thing but I definitely noticed a shift. I went from watching TechTV/TSS religiously to not very often at all even though I still loved the cast and crew. I always felt really bad about that. Like somehow the G4 takeover was my fault.  Thanks for keeping everything going with TWiT. I love the narrow focus of all the other shows but TSS is really my preferred format so I'm really excited to see it return.  Any chance you'll get an old beat up fridge for the Brick House?
Do you see Tom ever coming back? Would you ever buy other podcast networks or shows?
Hey, Leo,   I've been watching you since the original Screen Savers and Call for Help, and just recently got back into TWiT.   I have two questions:   1- What is your day-to-day use laptop computer?   2- What is your favorite beer?   EDIT: formatting.
Is that a question?
Why did the Giz Wiz go?
Personally I like what he brings to the shows, but I just can't stand his voice. He does not have a broadcaster-friendly voice at all. :(
The first TNSS episode used the full intro which featured all the people that will be involved in the show, in different episodes/segments.  Not all people featured will be in all episodes. Leo has mentioned that future episodes will use a shortened intro featuring only those who will be in the respective episode.
/draws beard on pic of Megan...  Holy crap!
Please don't
Big fan. I feel like your geography naturally predisposes you to cover the Valley and your personal history to cover NYC.  The one big place I don't see you cover much is my home town of Chicago, where LinkedIn, Groupon, grubhub, Morningstar, Orbitz, Coyote, and a bunch of other billion dollar companies are hq'd. When will we see a TWiT roadshow to our fair metropolis?
Hi Leo! I'm your typical Screen Savers turned TWIT fan. I've been active in your chat room lately under the handle "Proteus" and really enjoy your interaction with the channel during Mac Break Weekly and TWiT.  My question for you: you said you were "bullish" about TWiT and have big plans for the future. With Rev3Games and some other great video game podcasts gone, and a lot of gaming sites going the way of cheap clickbait, **do you have plans for a video game podcast?** I think its a huge missing link in your lineup and would love to see a gaming TWiT show.
[deleted]
Hey Leo,  we've never met, but you made a big impression on me. I remember being in middle school, watching you on Call for Help and TSS. I grew up in backwoods nowhere, but seeing you talk about technology gave me a hunger for it the likes i have never felt before. Thanks a lot for everything you do.   P.S. I've always had a huge crush on Kate, think you could put in a good word for me?
Hey Leo!   What's the best "after the mics are off" story you have? 
I wonder about that. I feel like I'm on a list and next to my name there's a handwritten note: NEVER! -SJ   On the other hand, even if I were invited I wouldn't be able to go. I need to be in the studio to anchor coverage. If you're in the keynote, you can't cover it.  I am so glad I did get to see Steve's best keynotes in person: the iPhone announcement, the iPad announcement. Great performances by a master showman. I don't think I'm missing anything much these days.   
[deleted]
&gt; TSS retrospective with updated information.  Could that be fair use (if you even have access to any of the recordings)?
The mics are never off. Everything interesting is on display at live.twit.tv. Seriously. After the lights go out I deflate like an old balloon and they put me in a closet until next time. 
Leo, long time fans here. Chris Gore was just at the store trying to kickstart DVDuesday! How do you handle ad sales? Do you have a person or team constantly reaching out to potential advertisers, or is there ad middleware service you use?
Kate is very happily married these days. You'll have to get in line!
[deleted]
OK, I haven't had a chance to listen to this week's TWiT yet, but Jason Calicanis? Has Hell frozen over? 
The only thing I miss were those big camera sweeping shots but all in all it has the same great feel.
We did a gaming show, Game On! with Brian Brushwood and Veronica Belmont. It didn't really go anywhere and we cancelled it after 13 episodes. I think 1. the gaming market is already super served by podcasts, youtube, and twitch, 2. it's such a fragmented (and fractious) audience it's darn hard to produce something that everyone will like. I don't see a gaming show in our future. 
Great idea. I love Chicago. I don't think our coverage is geographically motivated. We're in the boonies and don't have any particular access to SF. We cover what's hot. Period. 
Oh this I might drive up for. 
cordcutters podcast on twit?
[deleted]
I use the new 13" Macbook Pro and a Chromebook Pixel at home. I don't drink beer much, but when I do I drink Belgian. I'm particularly fond of Belgian Trippels. 
Tom is doing great without us. I doubt he'd be interested in coming back. 
...This has been the greatest moment of my adult life. I always fantasized about calling in on a webcam one day, and I even re purposed an old refrigerator for a book shelf. Even though I'll have to give up my crush on Kate, this was awesome.
Lack of interest is always what kills any of our shows. We never want to cancel any shows, and we only launch shows we think will be popular with our core audience, but we're too small to continue to do shows that lose money. If a show doesn't gain an audience, we have to kill it eventually. I'm a softie so we usually wait years before pulling the plug.    Oh, and Jolie O'Dell is on TWiT this Sunday with Dvorak!
Hah! I did. We couldn't get anything that worked at the studio, but my USB superdrive at home did! Nice CD!!
Twitch.tv if you content is of the right type, Vimeo is well regarded in the Video community.   But the best platform to make money on is your own. So, create an iPad/iPhone app, an Android app, a Windows Universal app, and a website. Still put your stuff up on Youtube, but start trying to transition your fans to your stuff. If they are engaged, they will follow you.  But make it worth their time to follow you. You might also try out the Patreon model, if your fans are highly engaged, then you may not need to look for as much advertisement.  (Tom Merritt said his Patreons told him not to say that he wouldn't take advertisements, because they want to ensure he keeps making content, even if the Patreon thing doesn't work.)
I don't get to talk with sarah very often. She never calls, never writes, and is slow to respond to our emails. I gather she's very busy at TechCrunch. We have invited her to co-host on TNSS and I think she said yes.
You are right, I remember Leo joking about it a few years ago. It was hilarious especially since he was kinda making fun of himself.
Didn't John retire? He's been on before, but is very hard to book for some reason. 
See above. Or below. Somewhere.
http://www.houseofantiquehardware.com/old-ceiling-fans-vintage-gyro-bronze
Hey Leo!  I have been so happy to finally see the Screensavers format revived.  I was not around in the TechTV days but I have been watching you through TWiT since around ~2009 and [I visited you at the Brickhouse during the first week](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rcSl1N0gafY).  My question is are you still considering doing some sort of daily morning show and if TWiT has any plans to eventually expand beyond the Brickhouse (like perhaps a satellite studio in LA or NYC)?  Keep up the fantastic content :)  PS: I wanted to personally say thank you to you for allowing me to interview you in 2011 and to TWiT for opening up so many opportunities for me.  I have met many wonderful people through the TWiT community, some of which I have met up with IRL and have formed true friendships with.
Woah, thank you. I was wondering why they didn't have an open door policy anymore (saw it changed on the website) but couldn't find any info.   Very understandable now. That shit is scary. 
How dare you besmirch the good Martin Sargent. His podcast's and unscrewed were amazing. He was a pioneer of internet media. Web Drifter was way ahead of it's time.
Two words you need to remember: yes, dear.   I'm a bad guy to ask. I'm on my third marriage. But I'm determined to make this one stick! Right, dear?
Very cool; thanks Leo!
Third marriage? When was your first one?
Curious how you got past the naming rights for "The Screen Savers". I remember when TWIT first aired it was called Revenge of the Screen Savers (or something like that). Were you able to get licensing rights from Comcast?
We love Petaluma. The quality of life is excellent here. And after commuting to SF for 13 years I'm thrilled to live five minutes from work. I also think it's an advantage to be outside the SF tech bubble but close enough that we can entice people to come up.   Finally, Skype solves this issue entirely. We don't need to be in SF, or LA, or NYC, and can treat everywhere equally thanks to the Internet. 
I was always mad about how wrong he was, usually. I don't mind contrarians, I do mind contrarians that just say stupid, misleading crap like Dvorak did.
i miss infected :(
So how are you getting away with using the name The New Screen Savers assuming it belong to G4TV or whomever last owned it? Did you have to buy the rights to the name, did it expire, or is it dissimilar enough to use?
But you lost Sarah :(
Hi Leo,  I was wondering if you've ever considered a show that discussed the development of web series?    I would think the TWIT audience is very likely to also be fans of things like Space Janitors and/or The Guild that sort of thing.  I'd love to see discussions of the latest indie web series, interviews with the cast/crew that put them together, how the technology involved is changing, that sort of thing.  Is that something that has been considered?
You mean it's _not_ Ladyslayer?
I'm the founding VR developer at ZeroTransform.  As a developer I'd love to talk with you guys about Virtual Reality if/when the topic comes up.  Is there any method for guest list consideration?  
[deleted]
We pretty much intend to stick with tech news, help, and how-to. That seems to be what our community wants and what we're good at producing. 
Be honest, who do you have a bigger crush on, Mary Jo or Mr Thurrott?
It's an abandoned trademark. We asked. 
We tried for years and finally gave up. 
I never knew that! I always catch the show after the fact via podcast, Looks like I'm so switching mediums! 
Hi, Carmen! I don't think the morning show is going to happen - we just couldn't find the right talent to do it. As for an NYC studio, we're ready to go. Just waiting for a green light from CUNY. 
Possibly. We wanted to do one, but it looks like Tom et al. have it covered. 
Ziff Davis originally owned TechTV?
I decided it was petty to keep him off. It was a good decision perfectly timed - Jason was amazing this week. 
Still on KFI, but I don't think we have a Philly affiliate. Last I checked the Internet was everywhere, though: http://twit.tv/ttg
Why can't people no longer walk in to the brickhouse to watch shows? 
Led Zeppelin was The New Yardbirds. So I imagine the show's name will be Led Savers.
We work with several brokers including Podtrac and Oxford Road. We also have our own in-house sales team led by Lisa Laporte. She handles about 50% directly. 
[deleted]
You certainly can - as long as you email tickets@twit.tv so we make sure that there's room for you. We've been sold out several times in the past few weeks. 
Is there any chance you'd get Andy Walker to be a guest on TWiT or TNSS?  I'm curious as to why there's been [seemingly] zero appearance by him nor mention of him in the history of TWiT. You two had a nice dynamic together during the Canadian production of Call for Help and I think he'd be great on TWiT.  Any thoughts?
Yep. It was ZDTV for a couple of years, then Paul Allen bought it and re-branded to TechTV. He sold it to Comcast in 2004 and they ran it into the ground. 
I kind of like Pauly but Mary Jo is the hottest. 
What happened to Yoshi? And is he coming back to do more crazy builds and laser cutting?
Not really. We just keep our eye out for cool stuff that's actually happening. On the other hand, we are interested in doing a show _in_ VR at some point!
Yep - he's working in the movie business, but we've reached out to him to get him onto The New Screen Savers. 
I love Andy but I've kind of lost touch with him over the years. 
So, how about you reach out to him? From what I can tell, he relocated to Florida last year.
They're both babes.
How about a show for the VFX/3D industry? It would be able to cover game making, cinema, VR, AR and fit in nicely with the maker movement with 3D printed TWiT swag.  You could test out photogammetry by making a realistic model of the TWiT crew, and show how its done.
Hey disguy!  We actually DO cover multi-rotor craft quite extensively on our DIY/Maker show, "Know How" (http://twit.tv/KH)   In the past 6 months we've taken our viewers through the basics of motors, batteries, frames, props, flight controllers, etc -- and we've done two complete builds (a x250 class and an x450 class) as well as a few dozen mods and upgrades.   Come check us out! :)
[deleted]
I actually watched a video about this the other day, coincidentally.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_fhDa-J3szI
Hey that's great to hear! Hope he saddles up with you guys.   I watched TechTV with so much enthusiasm in my teenage years and you guided me through building my first computers. Thanks for doing what you do and someone give Dvorak a hug. :)
I don't see it as slamming TWiT. I listen to and love both shows (and Night Attack and DTNS) and I feel like it's more poking fun at you and tech media in general, mostly because it's turned into a fashion obsessed Apple circle jerk (not just Apple, but it's practically all smartphone talk), and you, being a friend of John and a big name, get a lot of flack for the whole section.  Also, that, "Yeah, no," conversation on TWiG came out of no where and is so in line with recent No Agenda themes. You must be listening at least some of the time.
No, he wasn't always wrong and being contrarian is a perfectly valid, noble way of life. It's why I am the way I am. 
The problem with live chat is time zones.
The first few episodes with Lisa got me into photography. If you bring back a show like that, it would be great.
He also GETS NO SPAM
Jason's was definitely paid for by Leo. There was some issue where Jason was at IO, Leo wanted one, but it was nontransferable (if I recall correctly).
But they did play interstitial greetings from friends of the show.
Aye
Any hope for game on to return? It was the best show anyone has ever put together for gaming so it was pretty upsetting to lose.
I believe that's exactly what Leo was trying to do on [iPad Today Episode 245](https://youtu.be/gfyfp9lCjoE?t=56m15s). 
Personally, I listen to TWiT to get away from the culture Verge/Vox has created. Nilay has a good gig there and frankly, I think he doesn't fit well with TWiT. MHO, of course.
Though he wasn't really on TSS, what about Chris Pirillo?  I'd love to see other TTV/ZDTV faces as well!  Also, you made fun of my hometown on a TSS show in 2003 - even though the name was French.  I'm still hurt, but still a fan.
I had no idea you attempted a gaming show! Well, if it didn't work, it didn't work. Excited for TNSS. Thanks for taking my question!
&gt; Kim Komando  Of course she's "super techy", [**she sells her own branded 10" tablet**](http://shop.komando.com/komandotabtm-tablet) with a "hi-res" 1024x600 display!
I've been a fan of TWiT since day one, and I *just now* made the connection that Leos new wife, Lisa, is *that* Lisa. That's fucking awesome. 
I consider myself pretty contrarian as well, but if I'm wrong, it doesn't help anyone.
One Thing and one thing only... SPORK!!!
I concur. I vividly remember almost three years ago listening to Steve talk about going over the sugar hill, and that single podcast spurred a huge chain of drastic improvements to my life. 
lol I love your shows btw.
Are we allowed to upload your videos to Youtube (full hour+ long  videos of all shows)? 1 dedicated channel.    You would get more views, but not sure how to inform you of the stats? 
Ah, now it makes sense why you're defending Harry and his terribleness. 
Thanks for the response!  Listening to this weeks TWiT right now while I work!
Totally understandable. I thought he presented himself differently on TWiT than he does on the Vergecast, and I liked that he challenged Dvorak when most people just let him say wild things without backing them up. My opinion, of course!  Every podcast kinda ends up with its own consensus opinion on most topics I think, so getting some crossover leads to some great discussion.   The Net Neutrality debate I would have loved his voice in, as he really took the issue head on.  
I can understand not inviting him on the network, but why "erase" all of the shows he appeared on from TWiT.tv and Youtube? It seemed kind of petty to me. Will you repost them soon?
Wasn't it known right away what the fight was over?  I looked this all up a couple weeks ago, and this is what I gathered, I could be missing stuff but this seems to sum it up.  Brian and JRY wanted to leave twit because they couldn't swear.  They say they went out of their way to leave on good terms.  But they still had ad's sold when they left.  After they left, I believe Brian was still on an episode of Twit.  After that they received word that they were banned from Twit, this was never official.  They then talked about being banned from Twit on Night Attack.  They talk about how much they liked twit, and tried to leave on good terms, but were pissed they still got banned. During the discussions they said a lot of good things and a few bad things about Twit. 14 min mark here  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IHbuVmsz4lw   Leo heard about this discussion and didn't like the bad things, and now its assumed they are really banned.  I think/hope a lot of this is filled with over reactions to misunderstandings, but I can't really blame either side. 
Wow! Thanks Megan!
For [good reason.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TmySuy1QJfE)
[deleted]
Any chance we will see a return of Dan "Foo Foo" Huard ? lol
[deleted]
Then you're an idiot. BB is an all around nice guy. Leo didn't actually watch the episode in question so is probably quite confused about what was and wasn't said. The second time he was probably quite upset that leo had fired the guy that he poached of Brian. 
I would love this, there needs to be more IPTV channels that do what you guys do. It is the future.
What is your version of what is happening in [this video?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TmySuy1QJfE)
Yep, there was plenty of that. 
Sounds like you're blindly clinging to one side of the story.  There is much more to it.  The "answer" given is not "honest and vulnerable."  How does such an answer make one vulnerable?  Further, why were the chances so low? Does it not then follow that you didn't think Leo would tell the truth?  Look, the whole "fight" crap was petty and little.  The fact that Leo drew lines in the sad is silly.  The "drunken rant" is NOTHING.  I've heard more offensive things said about myself in class.  It was nothing compared to another event . . . a la Sarah Lane.
It was a quite political answer, wasn't it?
I completely agree, and I'm in the same situation.  What really got me was the petty decision to erase and wipe all shows that BB appeared in on the TWiT network.  Adults have disagreements and even fights.  Even if they are small and dumb.  But when one of the adults metaphorically tells everyone to shut up and takes their ball home so no one else can play . . . then I roll my eyes quite a bit.
Alex Albrecht was great as a co-host on the SS. Are you going to invite him to guest host on the the new SS? PS. Great first episode! Congrats!
I know Leo can't comment, but I'm pretty curious what happened with him. I'm guessing the new news director, is better. They said the contract negotiations didn't pan out.
That last part is the biggest issue. You have to consider that any readily available recordings are most likely on low quality VHS from viewers. Comcast supposedly has original studio tapes in mothballs which, while still SD, would be vastly superior quality and watchable. But they don't seem to wanna budge on giving them up which is a bummer. I, too, would LOVE to see something ala MST3K or even just a TSS re-runs slot scheduled.
But if Adam ever went to a live show he'd take the train because Trains Good, Planes Bad WOO WOO! 
Your mom's lipstick. 
I am actually very glad to hear that your son wants to keep it going. I do have to say it makes me curious where tech will end up when that time rolls around.
Your right SirPutts-a-lot  http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=but+Cuba
Some of us really miss DiBona... He has the Rolodex (now contact list).
Look up his episode of This Week in Law last year. Big debate there on Net Neutrality.
Love the network; especially Security Now.  Q:  Ever think of doing a Maker show? 
He, or someone there, listens at least some of the time as you say. Leo repeatedly drops No Agenda memes into conversation on TwiT and other shows, even recent ones. Yea, no; vocal fry; rule follower; a couple possible others that aren't quite so clearcut.
I remember when I first subscribed to MacUser, and I saw his back page column, I thought, "why is this guy writing in a Mac magazine? He seems like he hates Macs. I did eventually begin to appreciate him. Then MacWorld bought MacUser.
Jim is such a nice guy. He and the CFH crew were sweet enough to indulge 12 year old me with a silly string fight during the end credits of a live broadcast way back in... 1999 it must have been. Wonder if he remembers that...
I hope you guys can talk it out. Brian was probably my second favorite TWiT host (you being #1, of course). He had some great things to say and added a lot to the conversation. 
I have to say, it is kind of surreal to see Kevin Rose' name even, here on reddit.   I lost faith in Kevin when he ran digg into the ground with digg v3, then, selling it to become what it is now.  ugh.  how horrid.  Anyhow, it'd be full circle to see a Kevin Rose AMA on here.  I don't think I ever seen one yet, anyone else know if he's done an AMA?  edit: Wow, reddit search worked, and found his AMA he did 2 years ago.  LOL.  woops, I missed that one!
I guess it's gone already? Bummer.
He definitely would go on. 
He definitely would come on if you asked. 
Morgan Webb?!? -dies-
[deleted]
You too, sir!
what about cat?
I disagree. You're wrong and it was a great help to me! ;)
I once won a shirt on screensavers,  ended up never getting it though :/  I can even repeat the question I asked leo?
I thought that was a reference to JRY's father? Hard to get context from a 2 second clip.
Elgan would love to give that a shot.
Exactly, they were mildly (and justifiably) critical of the "CEO" of Twit, who Leo just happened to eventually marry.  Not their problem Leo mixes business with pleasure.
I'd disagree. Chris would be amazing.
Leo, I still have a beat up VHS of the old Screen Savers where Willie Nelson let you on his bus...tour like Willie, man!  (I remember it being cool at the time!)
If you gave him a massive dose of sedatives and got to watch him drool with his head flapping around that'd be something I'd watch 
Confirmation bias. Blonde jokes don't help, and the fact that 99% of the female hosts of FOX News are blonde doesn't help either :P
Hello Leo, I want to thank everyone from the former Screen Savers for contributing to my success in IT. I took computer repair and networking in high school and I would always watch The Screen Savers after school and talked my teacher in to watching it during class. I'm going to be 30 in 2 weeks and am now a Network/Server Admin. Will Twit be selling any The New Screen Savers shirts/merchandise? Also are LAN Parties and Dark Deals coming back as well? Glad you guys are back on the air, I will definitely watch you guys like old times :)
  SARAH LANE IS COMING BACK!?  It just gets better and better.
I watch almost every show your on.  I don't own anything Apple, but I love Mac Break weekly.  Thank you so much for your network. I've been watching you since The Screensavers and your the reason I bout a Roku years ago.
I kind of feel like there should be a daily night show like the Screensavers that is free to touch everything tech. Bring in young upandcomers in tech and be able to say and do things like shwood and jry's show did. It would be nice if you could team up with YouTube or Vimeo for content and talent. Just my 2 cents.
What! I admit I stopped watching so often after Leo left. Now I'm sad.
Jason brought a lot of the big picture ideals that I find lacking sometimes. I'm very excited for the future now.
How about a podcasting how to?
Two factors were that Merritt had moved to Los Angeles about a year earlier when his wife was offered a position with YouTube and had been doing the show remotely since (except for times when he was in Petuluma to record the YouTube funded video version of Sword &amp; Laser), which Leo wasn't keen on in the long run.  Leo also wanted TWiT to start doing more initial reporting of the news rather than merely analyzing content gleaned from elsewhere, hence the choice of Mike Elgan to replace him, even though Elgan had never really been infront of the microphone/camera before (except as a talking head).  There was obviously more to it than that, but those were two of the main issues which stick in my memory. 
Great, thanks for the detailed response. You're someone I would follow on social networks.   Elgan is very smart, and not afraid to express his opinions/theories on the stories. 
Wise guy, eh?
~ 40 minutes in https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JEdvil4LiI8 haha
[deleted]
I wonder how much of that was his fault..  from what I remember, they had alot of Angel investors and other executive folks on staff too.  Kevin was most visible, but he wasn't the only king of the castle.
Why is Leo feeding the trolls?
[deleted]
Then you'll love No Agenda 
couldn't pay enough to keep her huh?  or maybe to many insults/creep comments over the years... 
variety=poor production?
couldn't be the "bigger man" and ignore the comments...  they ran the NSFW show for how long?  You knew what you were getting into with them.  still miss both shwood and JRY 
he doesn't need to apologize
Nope.  I can blame TWiT for banning schwood &amp; JuRY, while pretending they weren't, and Leo for claiming to be victimized by them.
The whole thing strikes me as Leo holding some sort of grudge behind the scenes, not honestly communicating the issue, and then manufacturing outrage over calling Lisa "Yoko".  I'm irritated that there are shills taking Leo's side.
