Users, please be wary of proof. You are welcome to ask for more proof if you find it insufficient.   OP, if you need any help, please message the mods [here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fiama&amp;subject=&amp;message=).  Thank you!   *I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/IAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Yeah computers are cool, but what about Mad Max? You see it? I loved it, but a lot of people complained about the contrast between that one 3D/ CGI shot in relation to the rest of the movie with it's practical effects. Probably a studio note, you think? I liked it anyway. Hope the sequels are good. 
What can I do truly keep myself safe? From hackers, agencies, spam, scams, and corporations working with the previously mentioned? 
BOB here. First rule: use common sense. If something looks too good to be true, it probably is. Use an antimalware solution, stay away from shady websites (as much as possible) and be moderately paranoid about everything you encounter in the cyberspace.   Regarding agencies, there is little that you can do to safeguard yourself. However, it's up to you what you share online. You control what you send over the Internet, so the less you share about yourself, the less info they can harvest. Final words, don't do anything online that you wouldn't do in real life. It really helps. (edit: typo)
The other day I had a host with a 64-bit DLL injected into Explorer.exe.  This DLL had a 32-bit counterpart in the same directory.  Both files were originally created in %userprofile%/AppData/Roaming/plesome.  The host had a number, in the thousands, of directories in the AppData/Roaming directory with the same files, but the plesome was the oldest.    Though activity was certainly suspicious, I could not resolve what the infection source was or even see any particularly malicious functions in the DLL.  I could not even conclude that it was this DLL that was involved in creating the additional directories.  How do you go about tackling analysis of an injected DLL?  I feel like I am missing a significant step in analysis that is limiting my success. Below are the virustotal results for the two files.  https://www.virustotal.com/sv/file/be521712708e258efd3ceaa068202e2eee312f25e9262ea906f4e4a73b7946d9/analysis/1431358414/ https://www.virustotal.com/sv/file/aae5c81c88fe771e94dd131c03889d83abf1d03a6c75efcf68505ae5c3094f57/analysis/1431358400/
What do you guys make of all this? Do you see it as an opportunity or infringement? Also, are you told of changes and new measures? Or is it up to you to find out whose doing what? I know my questions, sound weird but I don't know much about computers besides how to use them. 
What are the most common ways a computer gets infected with ransomware?
It seems security companies are constantly giving out ominous warnings along the lines of "there are hundreds of new pieces of malware written every minute" and stuff like that. How does a security/antivirus company keep up with the onslaught of new malicious code? Of the millions of new pieces of malware written every month/year, how much of that stuff gets actively analyzed by a human and how much of it is automated? Do you guys find yourself digging through decompiled binaries on a regular basis?  Also, as someone in the field of cybersecurity and malware analysis myself, what advice do you have for someone to improve their malware analysis skills? 
In your opinion, what is the best free antivirus software?  Also, what is the best story you've come across of someone breaching computer security? What did that person do and what eventually happened to him?
[deleted]
I was thinking about those people with RFID or NFC device's/tags people have implanted. How do you development on that from a security perspective? Will it be used in the future instead of normal locks or access codes? 
Liviu here: Spam and zero-day exploits. Just make sure you keep all your software updated (windows, java, adobe, etc.) and don't clock on suspicious email attachment. Spammers usually prey on curiosity, so make sure you don't get tricked. 
BOB here. What functions does that DLL export / import? Anything suspicious? I'll have a look on these after I'm done with the AmA. (edit: did not see the VT links)
I've been in IT for about 12 years (I'm late 20's) and I'm no programmer, but know the basics and I've done a variety of things, mostly Helpdesk work and lots and lots of software and hardware support. Although not as much as the rest, I have done a bit of Jr. NetAdmin and AD Admin stuff, but I have always really enjoyed working the security side of things and have been interested in really pursuing it for awhile.   Doing threat analysis and building apps sounds pretty awesome. How would you recommend someone of my caliber (just starting out with computer security) to hit the ground running and start getting relevant and useful knowledge/experience? It would be amazing to be in a position where I can make money learning and mastering this craft, but in reality, nearly all of these positions require real world experience and expertise beforehand. With the technology constantly changing, new threats evolving, it can be somewhat intimidating just getting started as there is SO SO MUCH to learn.   Thanks for the AMA! 
Liviu here: If you have a NFC tag implanted, stay away from any reader :) - kidding. We could probably envision a future where instead of access key-cards, we will be implanted with NFC tags.  Btw: would you be willing to have one implanted?
Thanks Liviu. Just curious. Do you know (from your data) which is the most exploited software to deliver ransomware?
[deleted]
These guys work for an antivirus company. They're probably going to say BitDefender. 
BOB here: well' I'm working for Bitdefender so I would be biased to say it's ours. But hey, AV-test and AV-Comp also say that.  Regarding the best story: I was working as a sysadmin at the University and had to do forensics on an ARP spoofer Trojan. I took an old box that had been used as a webserver (therefore it was configured to automatically boot if power was lost). I had to use a physical machine because the sample had some VM-aware countermeasures built in and I was too lazy to make it work. So I infected that machine, let to run for half an hour, completed the analysis then pulled the plug and went home. At midnight, the IT guys in the graveyard shift gave me a call that one of my machines were routing the traffic for some 500 other computers in the network.  I got to work immediately just to find out that the cleaning team thought they had unplugged my machine when vacuuming the office and plugged it back :) It was a rookie mistake but I got away with a warning (and a lot of experience for the future)  
Liviu here: My best guess is java. It runs on 3 billion devices, so you can imagine that the odds of infecting someone are pretty high.
What are your favorite anti-malware programs?
Liviu here: If you're referring to privacy, we always have to stay up to date with what's going on in terms of laws, best practices, etc. For end-users, it's just like BOB mentioned: it's up to you what you share online and you have to take responsibility for this. 
I would be willing, yes. But i do have serious concerns, what about people with a portable reader in a smartphone. Would they be able to steal my precious keycard info?(maybe without me noticing) and how would i be able to block such a thing? any idea's?
Liviu here: Anti-malware as in security solution or malware analysis tools?
BOB here. I'm a journalist by education myself. I learnt programming when I was a kid just by reading books and experimenting with Delphi. Regarding computer security, be wary that it is a pretty vast ocean. Pick a platform first. Learn everything you can about it. If you're planning to reverse-engineer Windows malware, you need to know how Windows works first. Same thing goes for Android or any other platform. There are few people around that know everything about everything.  If your focus is Windows malware, get a copy of "Practical Malware Analysis" by Michael Sikorsky and Andrew Honig. It gets you through everything else you need to know.
Security solution
BOB here: yup, I mentioned that before I even started. You can ignore the first line in my previous comment :)
For someone interested in computer security as a career, which computer languages are most important to learn?  I have some background in C++, HTML, and i'm trying to pick up Python at the moment.
Does it affect you in any way that US is funding romania's cyber task forces?   Context: The fact that US has an army base, missle system + FBI/NSA trains our police force, kinda makes me feel like we are an american state but we don't know it.  Also what's your take on the whole "Big Brother Law" that was in palce for years but still being unconsitutional?  ---  I would rather have a terrorist attack or a hacking event but know people still have privacy then have no privacy at all! People die, people get information stolen!
Liviu Here: The short answer is YES. If you want to block someone from reading it you'd need some sort of shielding. For NFC cards and tokens that's pretty easy...there are special wallets that act as a Faraday cage.
BitDefender accept angajai care lucreaz 100% remote?
How hard is it to hack into files and databases, is it as easy as Penelope Garcia makes it look on the show Criminal Minds? 
Liviu here: I guess it depends on what security aspects you're interested in. BOB mentioned earlier that if you're focus is on Windows malware, then get a copy of "Practical Malware Analysis" by Michael Sikorsky and Andrew Honig. If you're interested in network security, try some CISCO courses.
BOB here: Nope, we're a company based in the EU, so we take user privacy *extremely seriously*. There are laws that govern us and these user-privacy laws are HEAVY.  Personally (and I'm not speaking on behalf of my company in this one), I'm not a big fan of the Big Brother law: it would make it harder for legit users to get online, but it wouldn't make any difference for the bad guys. The Internet is global, you can't regulate it for everybody unless you're China. 
[deleted]
At one point or another most files get seen by a human. We rely a lot on automated detections to improve our reaction speed, however we also do check to see if our systems are doing their job properly. While here please note that analysis does not always mean a full reverse of the program, for most files a skilled malware researcher only need a few seconds to tell you if the file is clean or not.  And we find ourselves digging through decompiled almost on a daily basis because there are some prevalent malware families that change their malware every day and we need to update our generic detections for the accordingly.  As for your last question I'm afraid the only answer is practice, when we hire a new guy, by the time he becomes a full fledged malware researcher he will probably see hundred of thousands of files. source: someone who actually does malware analysis at Bitdefender ^unlike^bob^and^liviu^who^are^press^guys.
Liviu here: I might be a bit biased on this one :) what you should do is check what independent testers have to say about security vendors. I recommend AV-Test and AV-Test, as they're the ones that perform some really comprehensive tests. You'll definitely find your answer there.
Did you have any issues with foreign companies when they found out (mostly because you promote your roots, big thumbs up from a Romanian fellow) that you are a Romanian company?
[deleted]
But, and I might be blunt, do you know if the presence of american, foreign, agencies and troops in Romania had any effect on the business or security?  It's not a coincidence by a lot that our last Intelligence Service Chief, supported the "Big Brother Law" it got ruled unconsitutional after all (after years in place and abused) then pushed for a new version, didn't got accepted, left office and was nominated as ambasador of Romania in US!
What is the best free anti-virus program available?
BOB here: there are about 35K new malware samples that we receive daily. There is no way we can analyze all these by hand, it would require an army of antimalware engineers  and this kind of talent is particularly difficult to find. Most of the analysis is done automatically: we do have an infrastructure that automatically learns malicious behavior and employs machine learning algorithms.   Our researchers do see lots of malware on a daily basis, but don't go through the entire malware flux by hand.  Regarding the malware analysis skills, you can sharpen your axe only as you use it. Stay up to date with the industry developments and spend *a lot of time* working on your skills. 
BOB here: as I stated in a previous reply, I'm biased. I don't think my imput on the matter would be relevant here.
Liviu here: not really. we've been pretty well known as guys that have a strong background in math and IT.
to be honest, all of them. Speaking strictly from a windows malware perspective, the first thing you need to know is assembly so you can do some reverse engineering. After that comes the standard C/C++. Than we go into semi-compiled languages like C#, Java(sic), etc... And finally we find the malware that are written in scripting languages and bring the interpreter with them like pyhton, autoit. Also there are the stand along windows scripting languages like batch and VBS. Sooooo.... good luck :)). Everything gets even worse if you want to do web/network security as well.
Favorite OS?
[deleted]
BOB here: That's movie stuff. But sometimes it's easier than what you see on TV. There are plenty of database servers on the web that have default log-in credentials.
Depends. If i'm trying to hack into a 9th grade web assignment than the answer is yes. If i'm trying to hack into facebook/google/nasa etc, than the answer is no, not even close.
Many people says that malware on Linux is so rare because of the low marketshare this operating system have. Is that true or is Linux's architecture which keeps down the number of malware available for this OS?
[deleted]
35k a day, wow. It seems you would need to have a pretty good automation infrastructure to handle that. I'll keep sharpening the ax, thanks for the reply!
Liviu: I'll stick to windows for common taks. However, i use everything from ios to android and linux.
Ok
BOB here: Not on our side of the business. I can't speak on behalf of the entire security industry in Romania, but American presence in RO did not interfere with the way we operate. 
BOB here: Windows for desktop and Android for mobile. As simple as that.
Hey, guys.  Thank you for doing this AMA.  What is the path that I have to follow to become a security engineer? What do you guys learned beside peogramming, networking and operating systems? To me, everything  from here seems vague and I'm also sure this is not enough. I searched on the internet a lot. I found only books for stupid teenagers about hacking and stuff. This is not what I want. I dont want to learn sql injection, I want to learn computer security.  Can you give me some piece of advice, maybe some book recommendations?  Multumesc.  
Question : when Bitdefender will support Windows 10 and how will be optimize for W10 ?
Strictly a markershare problem. As evidence in the last year you can see a pretty big increase in the number of malware for MACs. Generally malware creator try to target as many people as they can (that is why most malware to this day are still 32bit)
I heard Samsung phones and tablets are extremely easy to hack. What can I do to protect my tablet from attack? 
&gt; Liviu here: I guess it depends on what security aspects you're interested in. BOB mentioned earlier that if you're focus is on Windows malware, then get a copy of "Practical Malware Analysis" by Michael Sikorsky and Andrew Honig. If you're interested in network security, try some CISCO courses.   He replied several times. Hope it helps
How relevant is a smartphone anti-virus? And is the virus detection method for the mobile different than the desktop one?
[deleted]
Thanks!  One more thing...  With your wizard level security knowledge, can you tell me how legitimate this is on a scale of 1- hellno: http://i.imgur.com/qWCkhAh.png  I have my suspicions... 
But.. If that thing is in my hand (most usefull place i guess) would it be glove or something? That's inconvenient..
[deleted]
Yes because on android you don't have the same privileges you have on a desktop. Things get even worse on iOS.
As far as encrypting your home hard drive is Bitlocker good enough or should people be using a third party solution like truecrypt? Any other encryption advice?
BOB here: It's not about Samsung, they are not more prone to malware than non-Samsung Androids. Android phones are more prone to threats than iOS because of the relatively larger market share and fragmented OS ecosystem.   Regarding protection: keep sideloading or installing apps from third-party stores to an absolute minimum. Run an antivirus solution for mobiles. Update the OS as soon as one is available.
I would like to say smartphone a less vulnerable than Windows if you don't install shit on your phone. 
BOB here: as i mentioned above - First rule: use common sense. If something looks too good to be true, it probably is.
How about dynamic disk size? In vm you can see 1TB, on the host it is the total size used by OS and files.
Is using darknet a threat to security of a personal computer?
BOB here: That depends. In some cases, phones are vulnerable even if you don't install sh*t on them. Remember that they spend a great deal of their life connected to insecure networks and *a lot* of apps send data in plain text. We saw instances when apps were prone to man-in-the-middle attacks like this one: http://www.hotforsecurity.com/blog/advertising-sdk-can-be-hijacked-for-making-phone-calls-geo-locating-7461.html
BOB here: I'd go for TrueCrypt. That's what I'm using. And yes, I know it's not being maintained anymore.
What's your favorite book?
only if you don't know what you are doing.
Good insight. Thanks a lot. 
thanks, are there any security concerns using Bitlocker? 
VeraCrypt is a good alternative, based off TrueCrypt, exact same functionality, open source of course, but is more secure (fixed security flaws found in the current TrueCrypt version) and is still actively being maintained, a fork basically, been around for a little while now.
Hello guys!  My question is simple, when was the last time you guys were affected by a malicious piece of software?   Also, thank you for all your work, I've been using Bitdefender for many, many years and while I managed to convert a lot of people to use it I think the greatest accomplishment was to get my old folks to use it.
Do most FBI and law enforcement teams have a computer analyst or someone who is really good at hacking on their team working in the background
BOB here: Richard Dawkins - Unweaving the Rainbow. Here is the opening except:  We are going to die, and that makes us the lucky ones. Most people are never going to die because they are never going to be born. The potential people who could have been here in my place but who will in fact never see the light of day outnumber the sand grains of Arabia. Certainly those unborn ghosts include greater poets than Keats, scientists greater than Newton. We know this because the set of possible people allowed by our DNA so massively exceeds the set of actual people. In the teeth of these stupefying odds it is you and I, in our ordinariness, that are here.We privileged few, who won the lottery of birth against all odds, how dare we whine at our inevitable return to that prior state from which the vast majority have never stirred? 
What are some interesting online communities where security related topics are discussed that you recommend? Some other cool online resources?
Norton gets a lot of hate here on Reddit, but how bad/good do you think it really is?
Is there any thought to getting rid of passwords entirely?  Every site that requires passwords have their own rules about creation which makes creates a large number of passwords that are easily forgettable.  There has to be a better way for a user to authenticate.
[deleted]
That's a hellno.   I would put in pass@word1! As that a bad password I can come up with at the moment.
I highly recommend java and .net (c# being my choice).  they are highly leveraged languages in many industries and are in demand.
Unless you are on a jailbroken phone
I am doing a CS degree and I want to get into security. What books would you recommend I read?
Java is next on my agenda i think.
Is there such thing as a "secure network"?  Should we be putting critical systems such as the country's power grid on the internet when a cyber attack could cut power to the entire country in an instant?
What is your mother's maiden name? What is your pet's name? What is the name of the street you grew up on? When is your birthday?
Hi guys! What can I do to protect my computer from hackers aside of installing an antivirus? I'm more or less referring to those kind of people that brag that they can crack your fb profile or get inside your computer and look through your stuff.
&gt; AV-Test  So to anwer your question, Bitdefender.  AV-test loves them some bitdefender.
What are your thoughts on bitcoin and do you own any?
do you think quantum computers will break RSA and leave everything vulnerable? how concerning is that?
Is PornHub safe?
&gt; unlikebobandliviuwhoarepressguys  you should do the next AMA
BOB here: Mother's maiden name is Dobre, I don't have a pet, I grew up on the Primverii street and I'm born on January 5th 1983. I don't think they are going to help you anyway; I have a predefined set of answers for all security questions and they aren't even remotely close to the real ones. 
BOB here: That depends. Safe for work or free from malware? Most high profile adult websites are malware-free because they run a legit business. However, there is this malvertising thing that could load malicious code in the ad placeholders. Run an antimalware solution just to be on the safe side.
BOB here: The last incident that I know of happened a couple years ago when I managed to infect my PC with some aggressive piece of adware. I forgot to uncheck a box during the installation process of an otherwise legit freeware app and found my browser hijacked big time. Nothing critical, but had to spend two hours hunting for that sucker.
BOB here: yup, totally agree with that. Passwords are so 70s, but they still are the simplest way to accomodate masses of people. There are many ways to do authentication: biometrics or digital certificates, but it complicates the deployment and use, so web services still push passwords. The best you can do right now is to use a password manager to keep track of your accounts.
BOB here: don't know, never used their products &gt;:)
BOB here: From the top of my mind, go for the following:  Secrets of Reverse Engineering by Eldad Eliam; Practical Malware Analysis by Michael Sikorsky and Andrew Honig 
Hi there. What are your thoughts on Quantum Computers? Is it possible to have better security features with them?
BOB here: No, I never needed Bitcoins so I never bought any, but I actually tried to mine some in their early days just to see how it works. The issue with Bitcoin is that it's a highly unstable currency. You can get from rags to riches (and the other way around) overnight. It's a digital currency with a fixed supply (the number of Bitcoins that exist on the market is capped to 21 million), so the only variable that can influence pricing is demand. If the demand increases, your bitcoin is worth more. If the demand decreases, you get bankrupt.
BOB here: you can also increase the key length to increase complexity and, subsequently, increase the necessary time to bruteforce it. At this point, I'm more concerned about the way protocols are implemented (see the Logjam incident a couple days ago).
Thank you for your reply! Have a very nice day!
are you an actual wizard? or just possess wizard like skills.  how does one acquire said such skills?
Is your predefined answer to this question 'No' ? 
how can i redundantly backup important documents  and photos in the cloud using multiple services without data corruption or security breach? is this a government ploy to get at everyone's air gapped info (paper documents) ?  how can one be sure that any piece of hardware doesn't already have an nsa backdoor (or even nsa employees are already embedded in all levels of the software/hardware/security industry, setting standards)?
Dude.... its got William Shatner on it... would he lie to you ?
Another nice, simple control is... "Don't use your computer with an 'admin' account for general use. Use a separate admin and non-admin account.  This does not usually prevent infection when a zero-day exploit is in use but it could help where the vulnerability chaining is used to achieve privilege escalation.
Add Adobe Flash/Shockwave to that. Just about EVERYONE will need flash but most people don't need Java... so uninstall all versions of Java unless you need is and BAM you've significantly lowered your attack surface.
There are lots of things under the blanket of security. If you have a good understanding of operating systems &amp; networks, you're half way a long.  Learning how systems are compromised by using the tools that hackers use (like Metasploit for example) in a lab environment is valuable. And you can download VM's that are deliberately vulnerable (list below) so you can learn how to use hacker tools allowing you to understand how to defend against them  http://security.stackexchange.com/questions/57950/hackable-linux-distributions  The other thing I would advise is doing some formal training (SANS security bootcamp is good) and something to get an understanding of risk management and good base security policy.
Governments around the world have working groups on this... the field is called 'SCADA' and 'critical infrastructure'.  And its very scary just how bad it could be if compromised. Utility companies do smart things like NOT connecting their SCADA systems to the Internet but then ruin it all by connecting their SCADA systems to their corporate networks, without strong two factor authentication or logical segregation because, 'hey nobody can hack our corporate network right, we got a firewall and everything..."  And then of course some clever bastard manage to overcome an airgap at an Iranian nuclear material processing facility via an infected  USB....
Logjam... poodle... heartbleed... goto fail... export grade ciphers still being enabled becuase admins think security is set and forget.... GNUTLS and S-Channel fuck ups..... the list is endless... we can design good protocols but we're not as good at implementing them.
The Cuckoo's Egg by Clifford Stoll.... so many it security careers began as a result of that book.
Bitcoin is a blessing and a curse.  There are plenty of good things about it but it also enables a lot of e-crime.
Not if they overcome the NP-hard problems that underpin all our modern cryptographic methods.  They will still need to run some sort of operating system and application so will likely be susceptible to the same sorts of vulnerabilities.
Is the data that you're trying to protect really that sensitive ?  You could use a combination of hashing and encryption.... if your prepared to accept the responsibility for managing the keying material... lost it and you're fucked, the NSA wont help you even if they could because your data isint important enough.
You have 5 guesses for my password. What would you guess?
