Do you think smartwatches will become popular? How long do you think it'll take for them to take off if that's the case?
your first impression when you got it?
Were you wearing the 38mm or 42mm in the Periscope video?
Does the Apple Watch have a dialer in the phone app?
he wore the 42mm
Does it bend?
Is it fairly scratch resistant?
Would the watch without Apple Pay affect your opinions/review of it, as that's essentially what is being sold here in the UK?
Do any of the apps provide additional filtering for watch based notifications?
Does it blend?
[deleted]
Will you actually buy one?
[deleted]
What was the hardest part of building that review layout? Great work, read it this morning as soon as it went up.
You said in your review to just get the sport edition. What about the glass on the sport? Is the better glass worth $200 more?  
Do you have the aluminum or the stainless steel? How has it held up after ten days of potential dings and scratches?
Is the lack of a laminated screen as jarring as it is on the original iPad Air? I was disappointed to hear that it wasn't laminated in your review and I'm a little concerned now!
Does the Sport have the same "quality" of display, despite the Ion-X glass? Same color accuracy and lack of air-gap? Is it a better buy?
Which bands did you try out and which was your favorite?  How comfortable are they to wear while typing on a laptop?
If you absolutely had to buy one, which would you personally buy, the Pebble, Android Wear (Any like the 360, LG, Sony, Asus, etc), or Apple Watch?
Is Android Smartwear better?
I have the stainless steel Apple Watch with leather loop band, and I have to say the metal case is already getting a little scratched. It feels like it'll be like an iPod in that regard. Screen is fine, though.
How do the new (creepy) animated emojis work when sending to iPhones/iPads? Or can they only be sent to other people with an Apple Watch?  Either way, I'm really confused how these made it to the final product. They are just really strange to me.
Do you think circular screens are worth the engineering efforts? Apple apparently didn't.
What makes this watch look and feel better then the Moto 360 with Metal band?
Why should someone get an Apple Watch opposed to a Pebble or maybe even an Android Wear watch?
What are Vox Media's plans going forward on cross-coverage by Racked/Verge on products like this? You said in the review that you want to do more (and I've seen some crossover pieces on The Verge and Polygon) and I'd like to know what you think would be cool. I thought the Racked video discussion was the best part of the review. 
Would your prefer to have the Moto 360 compatible with iPhone, the Apple Watch or no smartwatch at all?
Is it possible the slow performance of third party apps can be due to WiFi speeds?
When Android Wear supports iOS, would you use an Apple Watch or an Android Wear watch?
Is here a do not disturb feature on the watch? 
Do you think the Apple Watch has the same potential as the first iPhone? The OG iPhone lacked a lot of things but set an important precedent for mobile computing. Will the Apple Watch follow a similar path for wearable computing?
[deleted]
Hey Nilay,   What are your opinions on the watch bands? Which one felt the best?   I noticed the video review didn't talk much about battery life - but I assume you got through the whole day? 
Does the Taptic Engine make any noticeable sound when it taps you (so that someone can hear it when you get notified even if the sound is turned off)?
[deleted]
Now that you're pretty familiar with Apple's approach to the wrist-mounted computer, how do you think Google will modify Android Wear in response to the Apple Watch?
Did anyone on the street notice you had the watch?
Do you think the Apple Watch will succeed  in allowing people to avoid using their phones and interact more with the real world? Google seems to have done a good job with Android Wear making contextual awareness a key feature that does a pretty good job of making their watches truly glanceable. From the periscope review it seems that the apple watch will produce a lot of people walking around staring at their watches like idiots for extended periods of time. 
Do you think the aluminum casing would be less prone to scratches? 
Apple Pay is definitely my favorite feature because it's so cool, but it's still pretty niche. Here in NYC, I use it in cabs and at the grocery store, and that's about it.  So, shruggie? Let your heart guide you. Your exploding heart emoji.
How much did you like the Black leather loop band? I am currently in the process of deciding on my band choice and I thought it looked pretty good on your wrist.
How would you feel about your fellow coworkers revealing all your darkest secrets in this AMA?
Not Nilay, but I think the reason Apple chose a rectangular screen was it made more sense in terms of displaying information rather than any engineering obstacles.
Is the slightly larger size of the 42mm version worth the $50 premium over the 38mm version?
Is Android Wear better or the Apple Watch (from a software perspective)? 
How do you feel about the seeming lack of focus on Siri?  Don't you think that the watch experience would be much better if one didn't have to poke, tap, and scroll all the time?  Why not open up Siri to devs so that one can just say "Hey Siri, send me an Uber."? Boom. Done.
Do the music controls allow you to control 3rd party apps (like Spotify) or does it only work with the stock Music app?
[deleted]
Do you think Apple will update it yearly? (Hardware wise)
Is the sport band really stiff, or is it relatively flexible?
If price wasn't a factor, would you pick the Apple Watch or Pebble? And give just one reason why.
Do you REALLY think updates will help speed the watch up.or just bog it down more over time?
How many of your complaints do you think could be fixed with software updates or are they here to stay until a second generation?
Hey, Nilay, huge fan, been reading the site since day one, etc etc fanboy fanboy fanboy.   Apple watch: in your periscope stream a moment ago,you mentioned that it was too expensive to justify right now, and to wait for the second model. What price point does the watch "feel like"?   Also, how did you feel using it socially? Did you use your phone less? Or is the watch just another gadget to stare at?  
prolly not, aluminium is a lot less resistant
Apple Watch or new Pebble?
What do you think is the next eventual evolution of the watch in terms of function?
[deleted]
Do you wish it was round? 
What do you predict the third-party killer app will be that could impress the mainstream consumer? I.e. Shazam, Paper, Instagram.
Thanks - that was what I needed to know.  If it ends up looking like the old iPods, I may get al-you-minium.
[deleted]
After the first Pebble and Pebble Steel, my major complaint about smartwatches (and this is more general about watches) is how much I have to take them off. I'm on a computer most of the day, and especially with laptops, I have to take watches off for comfort and to not scratch things. Is the Apple Watch comfortable enough that this doesn't feel like you need to take it off using a computer?  And more of an issue with the Apple Watch than other smart watches so far: You take it off to charge it. The Pebbles charge from the side, and you can technically wear it while charging, but it's awkward. With the Apple Watch, you have to take it off to charge it. My experience with trying to commit to smart watches has been that every time I have to take it off, I'm less likely to put it back on. Does the charging process and frequency feel like it hinders committing to putting it back on?  Rock on, Nilay!
[deleted]
Why do tech reviewers have such a low opinion of the general public's ability to understand choosing a case/band and taking a little bit of time to learn how to use the Watch? I keep reading how confusing this will be and I fail to see howso. 
[deleted]
[deleted]
What's one feature you think the next model has to have?
How's the weight factor on your wrist? Does it feel too heavy or light?   Love the Verge, by the way- very beef. 
Does it notify you while you're using your iPhone? That's one of the most annoying things on my Pebble, it keeps vibrating while I'm already replying to my texts on my phone. 
[deleted]
Did you ever use the Watch for walking directions? If so, how did the Taptic feedback feel? Did it feel different for each left and right? 
[deleted]
Is the digital crown smooth to operate?
Which gets more compliments, your Apple Watch or your studded bracelet?
Dieter, we're all ears.
Is there any delay between a notification that comes in on the phone, and the one that comes in on the watch?   When the phone vibrates in my pocket, I immediately go for my pocket. If I need to wait a while, I could see that being an issue. 
42. I have big wrists. The 38 seems REALLY small to me in general though.
[deleted]
Your favorite app on it so far?
After tweaking the notification settings, did you find that you were less inclined to take your phone out of your pocket? Is that something that you had to consciously fight to make the Apple Watch useful?
Nope. Favorites, Recents, Contacts, Voicemail.
[deleted]
After using the Apple Watch for 10 days, did you get a sense of the type of app the smartwatch needs to make it more desirable?
I second this question, I want to know how heavy the stainless model feels.
I don't really buy it though. A number of the Apple watch interfaces are already circular. Like the contact picker.
[deleted]
Same as everyone else I've shown it to: "why does this seem so hard to use?" It really takes a while to understand all the interface metaphors at work.
Not sure if you can answer this, but on the Apple site 'what's in the box' states there's 2 straps, any idea what they are?
Dieter pls
[deleted]
[deleted]
Beef or bust?
Is it definitely an OLED screen or is it simply a great LCD?  (Are the blacks perfect while in the dark?)
What real-world battery life are you seeing?
This or the Moto 360 and why?
Is it worth buying in your opinion?
Jony Ive - "When a huge part of the function is lists, a circle doesnt make any sense."
Will Apple get away with the pricing model for the Apple Watch?
how much of an inconvenience is the battery life? 
[deleted]
Are people around you noticing the vibration of the haptic engine when you get a message?
In your review you stated that you couldn't Tweet from the twitter app, but I'm wearing an Apple Watch now and all you have to do is force touch to compose a new tweet.  You sure you spent 10 days with this thing?
How the battery life on the Apple Watch ? 
If I mentioned your twitter handle in a tweet, would you get a notification for it? Like, if I created a bot that did nothing but tweet your handle with pictures of hentai doujin screenshots with ahegao faces, would that just constantly pop up on your watch all day?
In your review you mentioned the Apple Watch was the best smartwatch around right now. Do the extra functionalities over android wear make it better, even though other designs are closer to classic watches (huawei watch)?
Can we all just appreciate The Verge's design/product team for the stunning apple watch review page? Beautiful.
in the time you have used it, have you changed your mind about it since your first impressions? 
Could you elaborate more on the Leather Loop? I'm looking to get that band myself!
Do you think that android wear will evolve in some way with the official release of the apple watch? Or are they just totally different concepts? 
It would be great if you could post a picture of the watch depth compared to some common items (like a full Post It stack, or an iPhone, etc.) so others can get a better gauge for size.
Good point. But that's still a minority (and not the most important interfaces (excluding the app launcher))
The Racked staff is great! Shooting that video was so much fun.  The Verge and Racked staffs talk a lot, and we're definitely going to do more stuff together. There's so much overlap in tech and fashion right now, and in the end it all comes down to trendy things to buy. It's fun to get a different perspective on that.  What would you like to see? Columns? A podcast? Videos? Possibilities are wide open.
That's a classic Apple bit of PR spin. "We didn't do it, so it's obviously just wrong and no one would ever want it."   Steve Jobs - "Nobody wants a stylus!"  Except for everyone who has bought the Pencil, Jot, Bamboo, or any other of the vast array iOS stylus products.
The biggest drawback I've read on your review (which is awesome by the way) is that the Apple Watch isn't even a very good watch due to the fact that you have to physically raise your arm instead of just glancing at it like you can do with a traditional watch.   Do you think the 2nd/3rd gen (and  maybe all future smartwatches) will have an always-on screen with a gyroscope-activated backlight?
Is the walkie talkie feature shown in earlier marketing materials still there?
This is only for sport watches, a small-medium band and a medium-large band
How did you and Josh wind up integrating staged everyday use bits for your video reviews at the same time?  http://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2015-04-08/apple-watch-review-you-ll-want-one-but-you-don-t-need-one
Some of the interfaces are circular, but a majority of them are rectangular lists.  I think the Contact Picker as a circular interface works well for its purpose.    Also, by making it rectangular you're not limiting yourself off the bat.  If it were circular then you're instantly making rectangular lists a little harder to incorporate.  Whereas if it's rectangular, you can do circular interfaces as well as rectangular.    I personally have have no preference.  I own both round and rectangular watches. 
How do you feel Watch OS compares to Android wear as a smart watch platform. I've been using an iPhone 6 for a while now, and am considering going back to Android after picking up my old Xperia. As dumb as this sounds, a smart watch is weighing heavily on this. I had a Moto 360 and found it to be quite useful paired with my Z Ultra.   Google now seems to be the killer feature of Android wear, how do glances compare?
code red
[deleted]
Did you try it with the Dark Sky app? I'd consider it a killer app if it worked well.
I think they obviously will
What does it do better than Android Wear, and vice versa?
Ah! Thanks.
Do you think the design quirks were intentional? Or maybe a result of rushed production?
If the Verge does one thing well, it's designing beautiful goddamn webpages. 
Fine. That's it, just fine. It feels like it aggressively manages the CPU to make sure it lasts a full day, but you definitely have to charge it every night.
Do you really think it's more stylish than the Moto 360?
[deleted]
Can the music player in Glances control the Podcast app on iPhone as well?
But you know that if Scott Forstall was still at apple the digital crown would be used to turn a rotary dialer on the watch.
tell us a little bit about the process that goes into making those wonderful videos. do you have a team meeting where you script the entire thing?  was it a conscious decision to imitate the house of cards style of looking into the camera and talking?
Does the Apple watch feel sturdy in terms of build quality and weight? Thanks
Your review seemed to say that you like it more than the other watches but it still sucks while other reviewers such as Joshua Topolsky seemed to say it's great after you learn to use it and realize that it's just a second screen and not much more than that. How do you feel about their opinions of the watch? What did you want it to do that it didn't? What does Apple need to add to it, software or hardware wise?
Your review seemed to say that you like it more than the other watches but it still sucks while other reviewers such as Joshua Topolsky seemed to say it's great after you learn to use it and realize that it's just a second screen and not much more than that. How do you feel about their opinions of the watch? What did you want it to do that it didn't? What does Apple need to add to it, software or hardware wise?
From what I've heard it works just like the music controls in control centre, switching to whichever playback app is in use
Does the screen stay on at all times when running? Or does it accurately distinguishes between glances and arm movements?
Can the Gemini Hype check this AMA? 
How is it at quickly answering google hangout messages?
[deleted]
Thanks for your answer Nilay. Amazing review on the site. Absolutely loved the new layout!
Mountain Dew?
Any news yet about Find My iPhone being available for the Watches? Anything in the settings?
Nilay, what were the first things that others asked you about the watch when they saw you actually wearing it?
That choice is kind of made for you, right? If you have Android, you have to use a Wear device. If you have an iPhone, you've got to use the Watch. 
Quite a strange question but after having reviewed the AppleWatch, if you had to hand it back, would you go and buy one? If so, which model?
[deleted]
When you glance at the watch and the screen turns on, how fast do you have to move your arm for it to activate? Does it turn on with a natural motion?
I'd like to have this steam punk version you speak of.
Were you able to measure how accurate the fitness tracking was?   How does it feel while running with it?
I do! I think smartwatches should come in all shapes and sizes, just like regular watches.
And is there any comparison you could give to your Nixon Newton, or any regular watch you where? 
It's not "jarring," but it's there. You can see it when the light hits it at certain angles.
What is the top feature of the watch? Whats the worst?
So do you think the apple watch should be cross platform (along with other smart watches)? Since well it is a watch after all shouldn't they work with any platform.
Does the lag affect the overall experience?
I'm an iOS developer and was wondering if the apple watch had iTunes connect notifications?
[deleted]
If I understand correctly you can either turn notifications on or off for individual apps. Is there no way to whitelist certain contacts?
I think video would be the best medium. maybe podcast. It was great to see such a different perspective on the watch, maybe as fashion companies move into technology verge staff could provide the same critique from the other side. I had already read 2 reviews so I didn't bother with the text (sorry), but I too thought the video was excellent. 
How was the Unboxing experience? What does it look like?
Have you seen any decent-sized men wearing the smaller 38mm watch? Not to be sexist, but does it look "feminine" on a 6+ foot, 220lb dude? 
Can you read the display in the sun outside? And does it get hot on your wrist?
How does the "tap" from the taptic engine feel like? Is it similar to a person tapping you with a finger?
Is Digital Touch the new way to weird people out, like sending your heartbeat over and over? Bonus question : Is there a way to block it/Only friends can use the Digital Touch feature?
How does the display look in direct sunlight?  How did the well heart rate monitoring work during exercise? Did you compare it to any other devices?
I think they'll have to. Will be interesting to see how long this first generation lasts; the first-gen iPad got unsupported REALLY fast, for example, while the second-gen is still kicking.
Might just be my computer... but the scrolling on that page is so awful. Not even a year old 15" retina macbook pro. Tried Safari and Chrome.
I'm doing my senior seminar on wearable technology and one of the thing's I'm writing about is Marshall McLuhan's theory of ["The Medium is the Message"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_medium_is_the_message) applies to smartwatches. Would you say receiving a message on a smartwatch as opposed to your phone gives you a greater level of choice as to whether or not it's something you need to answer right now as opposed to the level of commitment to responding to something one might experience on a smartphone?  I feel like the limited controls on smartwatches might allow this to happen but I haven't actually used one so I'm not sure. 
[deleted]
No, but the dings are REALLY loud. You gotta turn those off.
Really liked your review, particularly your insights on notifications. I have a few questions:  - Do you find yourself reading a lot on it, or pulling out your phone to digest content (whether it be messages or news)? - How intuitive is the digital crown? Have you found that you normally prefer swiping or using the crown if you had an option within an app? - How long did it take you to get comfortable with the watch? Do you think it will take a lot of time for most people to be able to accustomed to it in their daily lives? - You mentioned that the load times have been slow in your review. Apart from location data, have you found that some apps load faster than others due to their content or their interface? - Assuming that Apple makes another generation, what do you think they missed in this generation of the watch that they will bring to the next one?  Full disclosure -- I work for a [news app](http://www.getbriefme.com).
I think you obviously don't know that, nor does anyone else, making it inherently not obvious.
Nilay can you talk about using the Watch without being near your iPhone? For instance going on a run and leaving your phone at home. 
Hello Nilay, I LOVE everything that you guys at The Verge are doing. My question for you is, do you think this is the next new product category for Apple that shows people that Apple can still function without Steve Jobs and still be successful?
Hi Nilay! I'm a big fan of The Verge and all of your work, I was wondering since I'm just about to enter college... where do you start when you want to write about tech? I think I could answer this question myself by saying I should start my own blog to express my views but I was wondering if there are any other tips you could give? 
That is, until Google decides to make Android Wear work with iPhones. 
this imo has the potential to be the most awesome part about the apple watch. i hate the pebble steel vibrations and the fact that others can hear my watch vibrate in a silent room.
It's obvious because they update almost everything, especially iPad, iPhone and now AW yearly... It's so obvious
Whats the experience like with Healthkit integration?
So you would go for the Sport Edition?
[deleted]
Can I hug you? 
Do you actually plan on using the watch daily now that your review is done?
can you select a different sound?
[deleted]
Pebble works with both iOS and Android.
[deleted]
Can you live without the Apple Watch now that you had it for a full day ?
If I'm wearing it and I'm having a conversation with somebody and I start getting notifications coming through (say, from a Facebook comment thread), how easy are the notifications to ignore? Am I going to have to be really rude and look at my watch mid conversation to manually turn it to Do Not Disturb? Is DND even an option?
We would have to see a feature breakdown at that point.
Why does The Verge have a reputation for being favorable towards Apple products? It seems your opinion is completely dismissed in some circles due to the apparent bias. 
It lets you control third-party music apps and works fine with Spotify. There's no Spotify app, though, so you definitely still need your phone. If you use iTunes you can sync music right to the watch and leave your phone behind.
They're the best! I'm trying to get them to participate in this AMA with me.
[deleted]
You said the apple watch is the best smartwatch, but why did you give it just a score of 7, even though the moto 360 got a score of 8.1?
None of those had a model that cost $10k+ though
Software/Hardware wise, which one do you prefer?
Then whats the point of the edition?
Welp.
What do you think about the thickness of the watch? Is there an awkward gap between where the band connects to the device and your wrist?
Has anyone in the public noticed? If so, what did they say?
Do I want the Apple Watch or Pebble Time? 
Why do you think Apple added "features" like the animated emojis and ability to send your heartbeat?   To me those seems like gimmicks that the company has generally stayed away from, especially post iOS 8 when they ditched the fake leather and such in their apps. 
Do you feel shackled by it?  Seems like the more stuff I get the more it seems to bring me down. Maybe I'm not making sense.   A while back I bought a watch that runs on solar power and gets a radio signal for date/time automatically. I think it'll outlive me. The fact that I never need to do anything to keep it going lifts all burden from me. Does the apple watch burden you?  Thanks!
What about a Verge Extras podcast with 1-2 Racked editors and 1-2 of the most fashion-conscious Verge editors?
I dislike it. The scrolling-bound animation in gratuitous, and the background video, detracts from the reading experience. I'm not sure how this is better than static layout.
What was the most useful feature or app that can't be found in competitors due to hardware?
What was the packaging/instruction stuff like? Would your mom be able to pick it up easily?
Is it worth the money?
It doesn't work very well with iOS, probably because it can't hook in very deep into system notifications.
What features do you find useful in everyday usage that are not possible with android wear or pebble?  
[deleted]
Do you think this size is here to stay a while? That is if next year the have a more efficient chip does it result in better battery or a thinner device with a smaller battery and around the same battery life?
The super wealthy. 
Why do you think it looks nice when it doesn't? 
Opulence.
Provided that Apple updates the software to address most of the popular complaints, would you wear one everyday? 
As a pebble steel user, what are your thoughts on the Apple Watch?
What is your favorite watch face  configuration? 
I second this. The apple watch prices really just make me want a pebble. 
Yep. It's one of those cool Apple hardware / software things where it works surprisingly well.
Bracelet. It's an icon.
I am now considering that, yes.
How sensitive is the accelerometer that wakes the screen? Does a slight movement as you make a quick glance down at your wrist activate the screen, or do you have to pull the watch up with a full arm movement?
What's it like being a stooge for Apple and how does it differ from your relationships with other technology companies?
[deleted]
True, which will most likely also be the case with Wear. So really the best choice is Watch if you're an iPhone owner. 
Do you think that Apple will be producing new Apple Watch hardware versions on an annual basis? My inclination is that this will be an "every other year" update. I'm not sure how often people care to replace a watch. Thoughts?
Is the heart rate tracking continuous, or does it only measure your pulse during workouts or when you swipe to the heart rate glance? Does the sensor consistently give you a reading when you want one, or are there often errors? And how accurate are measurements?
Hypothetical: Google announces at I/O next month that Android Wear has been updated with iOS support.   Are Android Wear watches competitive enough on price/features to  take on the Apple Watch?
What's it like to set up the apple watch?
Hmmm... but unless I've missed a product release, no smart watch is circular. I think you're referencing the Moto 360, which doesn't actually have a circular display. It looks like a flat tire.  Are you saying Motorola didn't think it was worth the effort either, or was Apple supposed to just magically fix this problem? 
Is it really as reflective as it appears on apples site or is that just their photoshopping? I look at the device and can't help but be reminded of one of the old skeumorphic icons. I think they purposely made it kinda ugly so they have something obvious to improve on in Apple watch v2.
Does the watch have/feature a "Find My Watch" mode or a "Lost" mode like your Mac or iPhone? 
It reminds me of the iPod classic
I think it's like, if you are an Apple fan, and you love gadgets, this will make you happy. It's not terribly useful, but it's fun, and it looks cool. It's jewelry for nerds.   I'm not buying one though -- I feel like I'm going to have lots of different smartwatches to wear in the next few months.
How does apple watch compare to the Galaxy gear line specifically??
Aren't you limited by your phone?
Haha, awesome. Thanks for answering!
It's kind of like that -- I think of it like the entire watch is pushing down on you sharply. It's really cool. If Apple builds it out more it could really be a thing.
How did you find the magnets in the leather loop? Doe it loosen during the day?
Aluminum scratches super easily. They could anodize or clear alodine it for fairly cheap though, and it adds a lot of protection
They has it.
I didn't review the Sport, but I played with them at the events. They look the same to me, honestly. I would buy the Sport for sure.
Will you continue using it everyday/will you miss something if you are not wearing it?
Thats what I believe. Look at the Mac Pro, they dont upgrade it each year...
Why didn't you do this for the smartwatch from other brands ?
Is your company hiring? Serious question.
Is there a story behind this bracelet? I noticed it too.. very 90'ish
Does not get hot except when it's been on the charger for a really long time. Worked fine in sunlight.
Is the apple watch worth buying? I'm personally skeptical, can you do anything on it like write a text or call someone? If not it seems like a waste of money.
that thing does not define the device. also everybody who buys a 10k+ watch doesn't care about 10k
Hi and sorry about that. Can you send some details to support@theverge.com about what you're seeing? I promise that we tested it on every device/browser/gadget at our dispense for a solid day to optimize the best we could, but it was a very quick turnaround and we could have missed something. 
that's a lot of ears
We love them, Nilay! Did they use mostly HTML for the responsive design and animations?
I've been wanting to know this too!
Thanks Nilay &amp; asteroid_puncher!
Do you think it is worth getting the Apple Watch in its first version, or are there enough bugs / design problems to make it worth waiting for a second version?
If you have an iPhone, the Apple Store app will give you a picture of each at actual size
Do you know what software is running on the watch? Is it a really stripped down version of iOS? Or something totally custom?
I think when the 360 came out at 249 it was the absolute state of the art, and it was somewhat inexpensive.  This is also the state of the art, but it's also a little bit slow, and the one I reviewed cost $700. You can be expensive or slow, but not both. That's a 7.  Also David scored the 360 and David loves everything. :)
I read your review and the entire time I was getting the sense that you thought the apple watch was slow and sluggish which brought down the experience. Apple said that you're only supposed to use the watch for 10-15 seconds at a time before turning it off to conserve (the pretty bad) battery. You said it yourself: "How much am I really supposed to use the Apple Watch to make it worth whatever price Ive paid for it?" So what I got from your review was this: -overpriced -sluggish -okay battery -looks good (not to me but that's preference) -good apple pay --  With all that in mind, the only thing really good about the apple watch is apple pay, but i know many people with iPhones that do not use or will not use apple pay. This leads me to my question:  Why a 7? A 7 implys the gadget is good but needs work. The moto 360 is a 7, needs work but it's almost there.
I'm huge fan Nilay. Got a question, did apple provide review unit access to the app store for the apple watch? If so, i'm anxious to know if the battery life dramatically drops when playing a game or something intensive. Thanks.
Yeah I got a Pebble Steel a while back, and after two weeks with it I couldn't help but wonder how much better it would be on Android. It just can't penetrate the walled garden of iOS.
Absolutely. I love how they use big news pieces to showcase new design elements.
I seem to be terrible at waking the screen. It's supposed to be a quick glance, but I have to like, overact to make it work. It looks like I'm dramatically indicating boredom.  Other people can just get it, though.
Yes  take a look here: http://www.theverge.com/jobs  And here: http://www.voxmedia.com/careers
How do you feel about all the editors of the verge moving away? (like David and Josh)
During the day, it checks your pulse every 10 minutes. You can trigger it with the glance, and it's continuous in workouts.  I found the sensor kind of erratic; a couple times it reported only half of my heart rate. Other reviewers I know had perfect experiences, though.
which company's offices made you most envious? which company's offices made you feel like theverge's offices were palaces by comparison?
Sure thing!
It is beef.
Happy cake day.
Do you have to carry your phone with you for the watch to work?
Nilay knows it as much as me  I dont know if there's going to be a new Apple Watch Edition next year, but I'm willing to bet a lot that there's going to be a new Apple Watch and Apple Watch sport.  It's not a "hobby" device like the Apple TV and it's not targeting a niche "pro" market like the Mac Pro (if we ignore the Edition, which probably won't sell a lot and probably only exists to make us see the Apple watch as a truly luxurious and fashionable item, imo)
That's well explained in the review
The Nixon is super light in comparison. My Akteo is bigger in terms of area, but also lighter. It's lighter than my Baume and Mercier. I would say it's like: the Apple Watch is heavier than inexpensive watches, but lighter than expensive watches.  The other thing -- and I couldn't figure out where to work this in the review -- is that when you wear a regular watch, other people can see the watchface all the time. The design matters; it communicates for you. With the Apple Watch, all other people see is a black square. All that watch face customization only shows up for you. It's very different.
All HTML, CSS, JS. 
LG G-R, LTE/Audi, Urbane, Huawei
You say that the Apple Watch is "easily the nicest smartwatch available." Is this just in terms of the materials (e.g., fit and finish) and the screen? Because I read your review, and I can't find any way in which the Apple Watch is nicer than existing Android Wear devices, other than those two categories.
How does other people (strangers) look at you while you wear Apple Watch? 
You can set it to VIP only, and then add people to your VIP list. But you have to use Apple Mail and contacts for all that to work. I don't, so it was a flood.  And even then, my VIPs send me tons of emails I don't want to see on my watch, especially at work. Dieter is a VIP, but I do not need to know that he's cool with our job codes for an event right away, on my wrist. How do you solve that?
Does it feel like a genuinely helpful product or as a starter 'this is what we can do' type of product to get developers on board?
How granular are notifications? If I have email set up so it makes no sounds or vibrations, but still appears on the lock screen on my phone, how would it work on the watch? Or can I set notifications to only appear on my watch?
Podcast Please.
Mostly pirate regalia...
It's different for each one. The Sport comes in a long oval plastic case with a clear top; the, um, Regular, comes in a white plastic box with a felt lining, and the Edition is like, an entire sensory experience with a built-in MagSafe charger.
If you needed to change one thing about each of the main watch competitors products (android wear (or moto 360 if talking hardware), apple watch, and pebble steel) to make the product clearly superior to the others, what would it be?
Do you experience any problems with the watch not showing notifications sometimes/randomly disconnecting like other bluetooth accessories?
I only accept heartbeats from smartwatches.
So what really happened with Josh Topolsky that caused a shakeup at The Verge?
Why do you think the verge is moving away from their technology roots and more towards click-bait / trending emptiness?  Loved this is my next.
You know, it's not. Guess it didn't make the cut for this release.
High polish SS will show minor surface scratches more so than aluminum, but will be much more resistant to deep scratches since its a harder material. The surface scratches can be easily polished out.    Aluminum, on the other hand, will do well avoiding minor surface scratches, but deeper scratches that penetrate the anodized layer will be very apparent since the normal aluminum will show. 
Ok, so what about for those of us who DON'T get handed press devices to review.
Love Dark Sky. Like all third-party apps, it takes a second to load, but the notifications come through.  I think we'll have to wait for native apps before anything is really a killer.
When you're not connected to your iPhone over WiFi or Bluetooth, it pretty much turns into a music player and fitness tracker. So, perfect for going on a run if you don't want to be connected. Bonus: Apple Pay stays authenticated, so you can leave your wallet at home too.
I just want to say thank you! Every day I read at least three or four articles from The Verge! What do you think Apple will change when they come out with the second Apple Watch?
Apple Pay, by far.
Maybe it's one of those things that you can "teach" yourself. There's probably a specific, subtle movement that will activate the display even if it doesn't come natural to you at first. Also, it might just become part of your muscle memory to flick your wrist as you look to it, rather than having to make separate conscious movements. I'd be interested to know if you find it easier, in the coming weeks.
Did anyone ask for this AMA?  Or is this a sponsored thing?  My main question is, which company pays The Verge the most for advertising their product?
What is money? What is value? What are you paying for? CAPITALISM NOOOOOOOOO
Did you get any adverts on the watch?
http://www.reddit.com/r/AppleWatch/comments/31vu7b/apple_watch_sports_bands_seem_to_only_come_with/
Love the leather loop. Doesn't loosen, but I mess with it a lot.   Lots of other people tell me it's ugly, though.
Yes, you have missed several. G Watch R, Watch Urbane, Huawei Watch. Also, outside the Android space, there is LG's WebOS watch. And in my opinion the Moto 360 is "close enough".
Thanks for the response. I don't think there is a good way of solving that problem right now, at least not for email. The only solution that comes to mind is having curated e-mail like Inbox for Gmail, but the algorithm would have to be really, *really* good.
If you want one because you're a gadget person, I'd get the Sport. You'll get to follow along as Apple updates it, it'll be fun, all that.  But I personally would wait for the next round.
How is the heart rate monitor? 
Is Sam the office clown? He always seems to be up to shenanigans on snapchat!
If you were to put a price tag on the watch, what would it be? In other words, how much is it worth?
Thanks for responding and excellent job by the rest of the Vox team on the design of the article and the video itself...the bar meeting scene was perfectly done.
[deleted]
This is more for the devs who created the articles UI/UX, but what framework(s) did they find most useful when designing &amp; developing the article? Or is it all custom JS/CSS? 
Without your phone, all the watch can do is play music and track your activity. So, no, but also definitely yes.
How many Apps in the App Store were available to you during your test?
Loved the review - gorgeous page and great video. What happens when your phone is disconnected? Does it just get reduced to telling the time?
Is it fit for usage in and around water?
Serious question, how are the names displayed if they are more than 4 letters? In all the Apple Marketing material, all are 3 letter names, that fit perfectly in the design. In real life, 2% of my friends's name would fit on that screen :)  Ser...
Yes, it's the nicest smartwatch hardware I've seen. It might be the nicest piece of tech hardware available, period. It is a tiny little miracle of engineering.  Agree on the software front, though. It's all pretty similar, with some mild differences.
Is the Verge Mobile Podcast coming back?
Did you try any remote-control apps, such as Apple TV remote, HUE lights, SONOS?
We spent the most engineering time on getting that curtain effect to happen (white top and bottom that opens to the watch at the start of every scene) in a consistent and performant way across all browsers and screen sizes.
Did you use [GLIMPSE](http://watchaware.com/watch-apps/glimpse) so you could monitor The Button?
I'm using the watchface (for notifications) and the communications app the most. The other apps all need to go faster.
Did you ever get your hands on the link bracelet? How scratch resistant is it for normal day use?
[deleted]
Is the display definitely AMOLED?
I like to think of myself as the office #teen, but clown works too, seeing as my hair getting out of control.
Not Nilay, but the review says he had the Milanese, leather loop and sport band, and he preferred the leather loop
I don't know. How much do you spend on clothes? On sneakers? On accessories? This comes out of that budget, not your like "can't live without it" technology budget.
Yep, works fine.
But I read somewhere else that the sounds are off by default. Is that right?
Probably for a while longer yet. But I did the same with the Pebble and stopped wearing it when the battery died, so we'll see how this goes.
There seems to be a lot of discussion on the blogs about whether the two bands that are included with the Apple Watch Sport are comprised of 3 pieces (one end with the pin and two different sized ends with the holes) or 4 pieces (two ends with the pin and two ends with the holes). Can you shed some light on this?
Did you test how water resistant the watch is? If so, under what scenarios did you test it? 
I bet! That's some serious CSS trickery. Well done, it turned out great!
I take off my watch like, everywhere. I can't stand to use it at my laptop, and I take off everything the second I get home. Watch, wedding ring, cuff, all of it.   There were a few times when I'd take off the Watch to use my laptop at work and realize I hadn't put it back on like two hours later. Whoops.
It's less messy on the interface front than I thought, but I never, ever expected it to be slow. So both good and bad changes.
If you are able to put your phone in airplane mode from the watch, doesn't that mean that you sever the watch phone connection? Do you have to pull your phone out again to switch off airplane mode?
1. "Oh, does this mean I can leave my phone at home?" 2. "Why would I use this instead of my phone?" 3. "How do I use this?"  I feel like there's a lot of Big Ideas to unpack in that set of questions and expectations.
I think I've been reading in reviews that you can't. I don't actually have one though so, grain of salt and all that
Yes, absolutely. That first iPhone wasn't fast, for example. but it was always, always responsive. This sometimes isn't responsive, and it hurts the experience.
Which company do you think is doing everything right within the smart watch phase so far, Apple or Google?
Pretty basic -- it feeds data into the Health app on your phone, and other apps can read it. The Watch itself doesn't do much with data from Healthkit.
Apple Pay. I keep saying it, but it really is Apple at its best.
how accurate is the heart rate monitor?
You mentioned in the periscope it's no comparison to Android Wear, so what would you say Apple Watch key feature that could beat out Android wear?
So, I suck at getting the screen to activate. It should turn with a natural motion  other people get it just fine  but I'm out here waving my arms like a clown trying to get it to turn on.
What happens when you drive with it? Is it distracting? Do you see it as something that would be another temptation to do something other than drive when behind the wheel?  Thanks 
obviously there's a benefit to you to fix it, but it's cool that you're taking the time to do so. keep it up!
jailbreak tweak in about 3 months!
You have exactly the right advice: start writing! The only way to get good at writing is to write a lot. I wrote 14 posts a day, 8 days a week at Engadget. Do half of that, collect your best stuff, and start sending links to people. Get in the conversation on Twitter. We hire out of our forums a lot -- get in there and participate. It's easier than ever now.
Does the inside of the band smell funky?
iVerge tho
How many words is that post?? Can you give me a TL;DR version?
If Apple fixes the performance and manages to keep the battery life steady, I would wear one. It's a fun toy. But I don't deal with slow computers. Not anymore.  NOT ANYMORE
They all have too many features and not enough purpose.
Nilay loves to be bias.     Sorry Nilay, couldn't resist ;)
Would you say the heart rate sensor is more accurate/faster than any other smartwatch?
We did a big feature with Pebble Time; we are taking the Wear stuff as it comes, but it's all kind of boring right now.  That said, we do big longform every week; we do big features with video and design about other new platforms all the time.   It's not every day that Apple launches an entirely new product and platform, so we thought it deserved some additional production to stand out from the crowd.
Custom JS/CSS. 
Apart from being a shade prettier, what does Apple watch do better than Android Wear watches?
Oh god no. But I'm sure someone will find a way to make that nightmare reality.
Looks like it could be happening soon. http://www.ibtimes.com/android-wear-code-hints-google-developing-iphone-compatible-smartwatch-software-1851174
They cut off, and scroll in.
Great! I think I'll start writing more after my finals. Those seem more important at the minute. 
Whoa what? You can leave your phone behind? I thought it had to be with you to use the watch, and it is not standalone?
thanks!
[deleted]
Seconding /u/Awoawesome: All the reviews have been saying 'no'. 
Someone made a supercut of Nilay's bracelet: https://vine.co/v/eBvduz0WxF6
It's killing me that my two primary cards (Discover and an airline card) *still* don't work with Apple Pay. 
Is it like the haptic feedback on the new Macbook Trackpads? That feels shockingly real. 
To expand on what /u/laurenrabaino said, our custom JS implements jQuery and our CSS is compiled with Sass/Compass.
Apple does a lot of experimentation and iteration on their devices before they ship. When they were working on the iPhone, they actually had a prototype that was really an "iPod + Phone" that used the click wheel to simulate a rotary dial.  As for the stylus thing, I don't think hardly anyone uses those styluses (styli?) on their iPhone, and certainly not for basic navigation and interaction. Those styluses are primarily used as an accessory for the iPad in conjunction with a drawing application. That's all.  Back when the iPhone was launched, the other smart devices on the market were practically unusable *without* a stylus, and it was awful. Context matters.
What is the best designed app you've seen for the Apple Watch for ease of use? If you're up for it, why?
One possibility is to alert only for messages that are flagged "High Importance" and from a contact on your VIP list. But unfortunately that takes the power of controlling notification out of your hands.
Apple is always thinking about the next 2-3 years *at least*. I would not be surprised if they're planning a circular design for future iterations.
As someone who uses iOS and got Glass to do dev with, Google really can't do much in terms of deep integration with iOS. Apple just doesn't expose their systems enough. So even if they wanted to do full iOS support, they really couldn't do anything close to the level of integration that the Watch offers.
And that leaves space to improve on the software that runs on the watch and over the OS, and also on the hardware that allows them to run, but I guess the pace of that work may be quite slower than we all expect. BTW, your team rocks! Keep up with the good stuff. Greetings from Chile!
If you have anything, it'll work with the Pebble. (Sorry Blackberry/Windows Phone)
Did you test to connectivity between the phone and the watch when they are on the same wifi network but not in close proximity to each other?  Seems like that would be a killer feature for me since I have hearings all the time but leave my phone in my office in another part of the courthouse.  Having notifications for emails and imessages would be super helpful and wouldn't raise the ire of the judge by looking at my watch instead of my phone.
No matter what, Android Wear watches would be at a disadvantage on iOS compared to the Apple watch because Apple is allowed to "cheat" on their own platform by using private APIs that were specifically designed to work with other Apple products. Google would be bound to the app sandbox, just like Pebble.  For instance, I don't know if Google Wear would ever be able to let the user reply to a text message or email on their wrist.
[deleted]
Sounds like you already had your answer, so why ask the question?
This need to happen.
To sum it all up: Apple Watch, beef or bust?
Can you have the weeknumber on a watchface ?
Reminds me of activating star power on those old Guitar Hero controllers.
I have *my* answer, and I'm going to defend it. But what I wanted was *Nilay's* answer, which I got, by the way.
Confirmed: Sam's hair is bust.
I think that's actually a pretty good example. A stylus is great for drawing and... not much else. Having to use a stylus all the time would suck (and did suck on early handheld devices). Similarly, a round watch face looks great when you're looking at a picture of an analog watch, but for everything else it's not as good. Plus, if you want a round face you can have one, and then there's room in the corners for complications, so it kind of works out. 
Are you able to change the quick responses for text messages to custom ones you'd want?
He said in the review that Apple Pay is his favorite feature. The weird emoji might be the worst/weirdest feature.
I think they're trying to make the device feel more personal. It's the first Apple product that you wear on your body. It's going to do some different things.
Seriously, here I am flailing around in all sorts of directions trying to get it to work with no results and my buddy on the couch playing bass just tilts his guitar like 5 and his note chart explodes into star power
Do you have a printer yet?
Who said that having a stylus means you *have* to use it all the time? That's an utterly ridiculous, false premise. Just look at the Galaxy Note, a product that was utterly scorned at launch, that turned out to be a massive success. (Apple Watch could go in a similar way, but I'm not so sure.) Having the stylus does not detract from the phone at all, and the people who use it, love it. The people who don't forget about it. But Steve Jobs re-iterated the stylus sentiment shortly after the iPad launched. (If you see a stylus, they blew it; if you see a task manager, they blew it.) Some people want styli, and the market has had to bend over backwards shoehorning a palm-rejecting, pressure sensitive stylus into the iPad.  Personally, I think that circular watches just look better. And a watch is something that is going to be seen a lot. The great thing about Android Wear is that it offered the choice from day 1. Apple has made the choice for its users.
You can load a few songs on the actual watch and play via BT. But, so far to use Spotify, you still need your phone and the Watch behaves merely as a remote
This is news to me, do you have a source where I can see the watch-only capabilities?
Three making android wear compatable with ipone
Do you think the Apple Watch has good enough activity/sleep monitoring to replace a Microsoft Band or FitBit?
Great news, I wasn't aware.
It looks a bit like ripped cardboard 
The Verge once published an article several months back on the specific things that the Apple Watch would have to do in order for it to be successful. One of those points was: It had to be a watch, first and foremost.  After reading your review, you mentioned that it would unreliably turn on and that it was laggy at best. Would you say that the Apple Watch succeeded in "being a watch"?  I also love the entirely new article design as well as the novel-length review for what ended up being a 7/10 product. And not a single mention of Android Wear in there, despite the numerous mentions of the as-yet-to-be-released Apple Watch in *every* Android Wear review.
And that's what's weird as both would work fine with Google Wallet.
In my case, $0. I'm 30 and still wearing clothes from High School my mom bought me.  Now I wear clothes my wife buys me.
&gt;They're making Android Wear compatible with iPhone.   ^^^Sorry
Apple is the current hotness. You're bound to get more editors that prefer Apple devices. And since Apple sells more iPhones in the US than every other manufacturer, then you're going to get a lot of comparisons to the iPhone. Maybe went Samsung outsells Apple they'll become S Verge.  That said, the Verge team does seem to be very diverse.
What needs to happen is a 24/7 Verge channel where they keep Bohn/Plant/Sheffer in a room and talk the whole time.
pros press select dudes. 
Even better, you can just say, "Hey Siri, call [phone number]" like on the iPhone.
It really would be great if they had a "came here to read? click here for just the text and contextually relevant photographs" link. This being an Apple product review, however, you have to appreciate their commitment to style over substance.
Well even if you're not using it, if your phone is designed around having a stylus you'll have to worry about losing it, it'll take up space, all for something that's really just good at one thing. You're right though, it's not a perfect analogy. The larger point was you have this feature that is great in limited circumstances, and the rest of the time it's in your way. I do also realize that watches are a fashion item, so liking how it looks is potentially even more important than it being ideal to interact with.   I think Apple does have a point, though, at least for their own OS. They've put a larger focus on apps and lists than it looks like Android Wear has (which is mostly either reaction to notifications, Google Now ambient information, or voice control AFAICT), so a circular design stops making sense after the watch face goes away. And yes, Apple is known for making choices for its users, which is both good and bad sometimes :) Jony Ive even came out against that Motorola phone customizer, basically saying that he thought that they were forcing the user to design it themselves (and potentially do a bad job). I can totally respect the anti-Apple people who take offense to that, but it's just how Apple is. 
[This is what the Apple Watch can do without an iPhone](http://www.imore.com/heres-what-apple-watch-can-do-without-iphone)
Yep. Right there with ya buddy (as I wear thrift shop shorts and a shirt I bought in college, while working my software job).  Meanwhile, my doctor girlfriend is wearing super-nice shit for her high-profile job in academia. Amazing how life turned out.
Could you explain to me which names you mean (where/in which app/controls they can only be 4 letters)? Sorry, I don't get this and when I don't get something like this, that makes me sick  
You can put 2GB worth of music on the watch and use Bluetooth headphones to play the music without the phone 
Sam.
Sam.
Thank you
It will be same as the back of an iPhone I guess. Mine is in my pocket with keys quite often and yet have to find my first scratch.
You want to play a game, on your wrist?
Agreed, it's just really not my style, and seems flashy for no reason.
My pick:  Microsoft Band on Android/WinPhone 
No, apparently they come turned on by default. It literally takes one seconds to tap the mute button though.
Just get the apple care if you're scared it'll break. That's what im gonna do 
Same here, on the absolutely brand new 13-MBPr :-(
So does Wired. http://www.wired.com/2015/04/the-apple-watch/
I think [this](http://images.gizmag.com/inline/best-android-wear-apps-16.jpg) right here should be a good enough reason for you.  Unless we invent a new language that used circular text, it's not going to be very good on a circular screen.
Do you think its a good idea to buy one of these, leave it boxed and resell it 10 years from now? ;)
It apparently simulates a click just like the trackpads when you do the hard press gesture And when you reach the end of a list when scrolling it makes the crown feel like it has tension in conjunction with the rubber band animation.
The next Keynote will have Tim Cook announcing the replacement of iAds - Apple Ads, now with Watch support.
With JS, you can literally do anything that is possible. So, ....    What point was I trying to make?
How dare you mention your girlfriend, Fuck you guy
They probably only tested it on Whitey
[deleted]
Even if Spotify releases an app right now you would still need your phone, as all third party apps right now run their logic on the phone and the watch just displays/updates the UI. At WWDC they will most likely announce the native app SDK though, where they could potentially let you sync Spotify music to the watch.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Because if you were making enough money to purchase a $10,000 watch you wouldn't buy a $1,000 watch, smart watch or not. Apple wants to get their product in as many hands, or wrists, as possible.
Well we still can't do that atm anyway :/
I... wut?
You were at like -1 because of some mad people being mad on you
He also gave the original classic Pebble a 8.2, and the Pebble Steel an 8.5, and both devices were reviewed at launch, and have greatly improved since.  The Apple watch is just bad ;-)
Neither, go with Pebble Time.
What time is it?
IR blaster?
Yeah... namely you.  Thanks for explaining how numbers work. Why are you mad at me?
The way you phrased both of those in the present tense sounds pretty icky
Sam you have a crap ton of karma
Google has Google Now on the iPhone in their search app. What google could do is make that app the Android wear app and push google now cards to the watch while also collecting notifications to send to the watch as well. Also all of googles apps could integrate with Wear on iPhone too.
[deleted]
*Applause*
Oh no, I just had to change my upvote to a downvote to make my comment consistent with reality. I have since changed it back a bit
1-100?
Apple already anodizes their aluminum... That's how they offer different color options. Apples anodized aluminum is top-quality and does a better job resisting light scratches than their polished stainless steel does. Deep scratches are the problem for aluminum, since it's so much softer than stainless steel.   I like the look of the black stainless steel watch more than any of them, but I'll be buying the sport space gray primarily for this reason. I know that the small surface scratches that stainless quickly develops will drive me nuts, and I don't want to polish it often. I prefer the trade-off of possibly getting an ugly deep scratch in my aluminum watch rather than definitely having a ton of small surface scratches on my stainless watch!
Don't tell me you're still wearing that bracelet. It's been like....seventeen years? 
We all know the Apple Watch won't be slow once the native Apple development kit comes out.   This is new software give it time. 
[deleted]
Does Apple ever try to get you to stop fanboy promoting their products since you are such a douchebag? Or is that a demographic they value?
Why does the verge seem so sexist against men as of lately? You guys went over weeks running a story about Ellen Pao being an insta victim, but then after the court decides she has no case you guys publish a small something about it and ban comments, and users from the comment sections?  Is this to generate page hits? 
You absolutely can reply to messages with just your watch on android wear
Are there plans to have Josh come back to the vergecast as a guest? I need to know if my family is going to be safe tonight. 
&gt; we thought it deserved some additional production to stand out from the crowd.  So a smart watch that featured one of the first circular displays didn't?
&gt; Apple at its best (copying and claiming it as original)  FTFY
Android Wear already has unofficial support for iOS devices. No jailbreak required.
Android Wear and the Watch OS are two completely different things. Android Wear is basically a companion.  For example, I get a notification about travel time to school in the morning. I can chose to navigate there are dismiss it. I play music in my car, I get a notification that allows me to control volume or skip the track. It's just an extension of my phone. It basically allows me to do most basic tasks on my watch without having to take my phone out.  It seems like the Watch OS is like a hybrid between a companion and a standalone device and can't figure it out.
Can you see yourself buying or wearing a watch where you have to worry about battery life and charging it every night? I get annoyed when I have to change batteries In a watch! Can't see that charging it every night is something I'm keen on...
This is the most Reddit thing I have read all day.
Did you also review other smart watches?   Samsung gear,  moto360.... Etc?    Do you have any basis to compare the iwatch to other smart wrist devices? 
And then have half drunk Nilay rant about net neutrality for two hours. 
I'm not an apple guy, but from the Ipods I've owned I would've guessed they didn't anodize the backings of the older models from all the scratches I got.   I prototype a lot and theres nothing worse than when there is dents or nicks in the aluminum, especially if it's something a client is going to be able to see.  A lot of times I have to glass beadblast to get the finish I want. Most of the stuff I do is nickel plated though, which is gorgeous, super hard and scratch resistant.  I like the black watch better as well, but don't mind the micro scratches. If you decide for the steel try mother's polish. I use that for all my steel watches
Not if it was paired to an iOS device
pebble is cross platform as well (but much better on android than ios due to availability of API's)
Its The Verge...   they're a SJW site that promotes crappy electronics from time to time. No real facts, just marketing and clickbait.
Oh i misread your original comment... 
Apple pay and thats essentially worthless
No one requested this, Apple paid for it and The Verge has no integrity.
If its anything like Android wear, its the process of taking the watch from flat on the top of your wrist, to vertical as the screen faces your face, that turns it on.
http://media4.giphy.com/media/IyX3umX5kosgg/giphy.gif
But you sure as heck didn't test it with HTTPS. Maybe try doing that next time.
It's flashy because it nets them extra brownie points from Apple, despite it being a 7/10 product.
I fully accept this reponse - I miss the old Reddit :(
This is no excuse for the notification interface and general built in software being slow. 
I feel like this is a very terrible thing when we talk about a watch. It seems cool to have the thing be such a multitalent and do so many amazing things, but at the end of the day, on a wrist, a more minimalistic approach might have been better. Both to combat distraction and to not make the UI ridiculous. 
This is why I no longer visit The Verge. The videos are too short and leave me with more questions than answers and every time it seems Apple is too heavily favored.   So far I haven't figure out an alternative but Tested is really scratching my nerd itch. They spend 30 minutes on straight technical talk with products. Instead of a 1 minute video with fancy edits, broad opinion, and no information you get a steady stream of the answers you're curious about. They also don't get preachy with politically driven videos and really shitty click bait articles with titles a middle schooler would come up with.   Does anyone know of anything else like Tested with good quality DIALOG? I could give two shits less about how great their video editing is. I like to be loaded with information.      The Verge is great if you hold a slight interest in technology, but if you're a serious geek/nerd that craves details you're constantly left with blue balls. 
Surely there must be some volume control, right?
How often do you get snaps from random snapchat followers?
Me, personally? Sometimes. I have a lot of random followers that I've become "friends" with through snapchat.
**EDIT: this post points really show how ANDROID idiots are... idiots, and don't like the facts when they have nowhere to run. The truth is, Apple is going to sell this 10-1, doesn't matter what The Verge says. (bought review and it shows)**  Apple Watch will came out a $349  +$100 will get you:  1. 8GB 2. OLED Screen vs IPS (can power only a small number of pixels) 3. More pixels (total and density) 4. Speakerphone 5. Linear Actuator 6. Pressure Sensitivity 7. Scroll Wheel 8. Wifi 9. NFC 10. Magnetic Compass  That one is more expensive, because you are getting fancy leather/magnetic band, and fancy zirconia, and fancy sapphire glass.
NO!  When the Alu. scratches, you can't go back.  The polished stainless steel can be re-polished either professionally or at home.  You can turn an old watch new.
Square = more screen area for the same diagonal.  
Apple Watch SDK doesn't allow for 2D or 3D graphics.  All games will be like Quizz and the like.
...they gave the watch a 7
What kind of watch did you wear before this?   One aspect of the Apple positioning that I appreciate is how they present their product as jewelry. I'm really interested to see if Apple has any success with attracting people like me who collect "fancy watches". Are you one of those people too?
**Google is close to making Android Wear work on the iPhone**  http://www.theverge.com/2015/4/9/8375931/android-wear-iphone-google-apple-compatible
**Google is close to making Android Wear work on the iPhone**  http://www.theverge.com/2015/4/9/8375931/android-wear-iphone-google-apple-compatible
Yes there is, the phone needs to send the watch the glance.  The 3rd party developers have probably never used an apple watch (or had very little hands on time with) and they haven't been able to fully test it. 
Oh really? What are the touch authorised zero config systems that it ripped off?
I'm reading this in a Soundgarden shirt I bought in 1993. Of course, I weigh close to twice what I did then, so it's not a pretty sight.
How they say Apple Pay is revolutionary and brand new even though NFC has been around since 2011.
but ran all the same applications and interfaces as every other phone on the same platform.   Get over it - more people want to read about Apple than Motorola. In fact, I can't believe you need told that. 
And the same improvement won't happen on the apple watch?  Give it time. 
Given the way Apple updates their software?  No, I surely don't.  I would expect them to release new hardware first.
Its the fact that people care more about apple then others gets to me. Who made the first tablet? Not apple. Who made the first smart watch? Not apple.   Apple and their marketing strategy bothers me. They claim all of these new features that are revolutionary (retina, apple pay, etc), yet there are tons of other companies out there that have done this first.   Retina is really more of a marketing tactic than a feature. You still have screens on apples flagships that are less than 1920x1080. Android flagships are pushing 2k screens (and possibly 4k now) and still get better battery life than iphones (screen is the main source of battery drain, along with cell signal).  Apple Pay is apples way of saying "we took NFC and made it only for payments and we are making it sound like something completely new that we made". Fact, NFC has been around since 2011 and apple isn't the first.
That's because the old ipods had polished stainless backs, which showed a ton of minor scratches/scuffs. Stainless can't be (or maybe can but usually isn't) anodized. It's usually just polished extensively.  Mothers polish is a godsend! 
Implementation and actually creating a market for technologies is just as difficult as inventing them. Apple do this better than anyone - because of Apple Pay, other NFC based payment systems will find that there are more payment stations for use. Not by accident, but as a result of Apple actually creating a system and infrastructure that retailers will buy into, at the correct time.   Not that people will allow themselves to accept these things 
Apple NEVER claimed to have NFC first. You're imagining things.  They did create a payment system based off NFC that has practically zero friction though, and no other company can claim that. 
Not that they claimed to have NFC first. Their marketing made it sound like Apple Pay was a worlds first (which it isn't, its just a re branded form of NFC payment)
Don't you think it would be easier if they removed the need to tap the dial thing? Like what if you could just put your hand up, it senses NFC, and boom.
That's Apple's problem.
Nilay rocked the Pebble Steel for quite a while and doesn't seem to be too swept up by the Apple Watch.
If you don't use ABP, its pretty easy to see Microsoft products constantly plastering the site with ads. I actually don't think I've ever seen an Apple ad.
Source? I really don't remember Apple claiming anything like that.
Look, the fact is that if you don't see Apple products as defining to the product category they enter, then I would say that you're wrong. The iPhone/iPod Touch standardized the expectations we have for media players and phones (Don't you remember the constant arguments about resistive vs capacitive touch screens on Engadget and Slashdot?) The iPad standardized our expectations for tablets (making it okay to have a consumption device). The fact that the industry itself snapped in line with Apples design philosophy on both hardware and UI/UX is so damning that I find the suggestion that Apple wasn't important in shaping and blowing up these categories to be pretty ludicrous.   Yeah man, their marketing is hyperbolic. Their branding is uninformative, but shit, they don't make bad products. Everyone went on about the iPod being a failure, then the iPhone, then the iPad, and each one of those has expanded their respective markets so much that one might even say its de facto creation.  That's why the excitement surrounds the Apple Watch. They have clout. Just like how Bungie used its clout to sell Destiny. However, just like Destiny, the Apple Watch seems to over promise and under deliver. Its a foreign design philosophy to its biggest competitors and the first product market that Apple is entering sans Jobs in fifteen years. Whether the Apple Watch continues the trend of defining and widening the market for their categories remains to be seen. I'm hugely skeptical of the success myself (odd UX, slow performance, cost, etc.), but whether or not the device is successful, it should be noted that its launch is important.
Just watch any of their WWDC (i think) announcements
&gt; 8GB  That I don't need because it's a fucking watch  &gt;OLED Screen vs IPS (can power only a small number of pixels)  That I don't need because it's a fucking watch  &gt; More pixels (total and density)  That I don't need because it's a fucking watch  &gt; Magnetic Compass  That I don't need because it's the 21st Century  Seriously, I have a Moto 360 and as much as I love it, there's a few things that annoy me because of the fact it's a 1st gen product. None of those have anything to do with storage or resolution though.
Nope, if I release an app that causes your iPhone to freeze, that is on me, not apple. 
Ahah, so ridiculous.  LOL.
If a sandboxed app can cause the entire phone to freeze, that is indeed Apple's problem. Yeah, it can potentially happen, but it really, really shouldn't.
Yeah, I have to imagine Google would have to limit it to Gmail, Hangouts, Google Voice, etc. Some things they could work around by just using other Bluetooth profiles like the dialer and music player control though. They can receive SMS notifications through MAP, [although Apple's Bluetooth support doesn't allow sending them](https://developer.apple.com/hardwaredrivers/BluetoothDesignGuidelines.pdf)
Looking at the iOS Bluetooth profiles, looks like they could do these things just by pairing:  * Sync the clock * Incoming and outgoing calls * Show incoming SMS (can't send outgoing)  * A full-featured music player with controls, song info and library browsing * Show iOS notifications * Siri  And that's pretty much it. Anything else they'd have to implement in their own apps, so email would be Gmail only, sending SMS would be Google Voice only, messaging would be Hangouts only, etc. Even that stuff would be iffy since they can't keep their app open all the time.
He's probably talking about the quick contacts view when you press the side button https://tctechcrunch2011.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/apple0200.jpg?w=600
Not true though. Apple pretty much defines what people want and need.
how does she feel about your hatred towards Thaddeus ?
All apps are sandboxed, even apps on your phone, and they can freeze very easily. Sandboxing has nothing to do with data transfers over bluetooth, and CPU usage, etc. 
I don't get this.   Surely the phone would be in your hand of you are about to speak to someone.  Saying it into your watch is even less discrete than saying it into a phone.
aahh, Magnetic Compass... this sold the thing for me. although, wait... when was the last time I actually used *any* type of compass? probably... around... never?
You can easily write an app that freezes, but you should always be able to return to the phone home screen and kill it, because the os skills prevent it from locking up all resources. That's part of the sandbox. If the while device freezes, that's an os flaw.
I wonder what the print link would give you, if there is one?
Apple prides themselves on having only quality apps in their store. It is, in fact, still their fault. Plus they are still responsible for not releasing dev kits ahead of time, (more) beta testing, etc.  Apple often gets it right, but when they don't, you can't just shift the responsibility. Consistency is key.
You are just too dumb for a smart watch. Or a smart phone, or smart anything. You use it al time when you use the maps and you don't know it.
It doesn't freeze up the entire OS, it stutters, huge difference.
And videos. Their footage and editing is top-notch.
why don't you fuck off? My smartphone uses it. I don't. My smartwatch (and I have two) does not and I don't need it.   
I use this feature often on my phone, but admittedly never in a public place. I find it most handy when someone has given me a business card, or I've scribbled down a number on a piece of paper. It's much easier to just say the number out loud to Siri than to punch it in manually.
I'm too dumb to know what you mean.
I see. That's interesting. I can imagine that process would work well with the watch.  But business cards? What millennium is this? You'll be telling me you have a clock strapped to your arm next.
Looked great and scrolled perfectly on my brand new 13" rMBP . . .
&gt;You said the apple watch is the best smartwatch  Please find me this quote from his review.  Hint: you won't find it, because it's not there.
The same could be said for the size of the iPhone.  When Apple released the original iPhone, they showed all the mockups of why is was the perfect size and the only size anyone would ever want because you could easily use it one-handed.  Just a few years ago, [Steve Jobs said, "no one's going to buy a big phone."](http://www.engadget.com/2010/07/16/jobs-no-ones-going-to-buy-a-big-phone/)  Now, Apple is selling a 5.5" iPhone 6+.  It is all about the PR spin for Apple.  They choose things, for one reason or another, and then come up with reasons why anything else is utterly ridiculous, until of course they do those things themselves, then it's the greatest idea ever!
I would expect much more of a collective gasp, like the one the crowd made when Tim Cook announced the Apple Watch Edition started at $10,000.
come on can't you VENTURE a guess?
If this is a reference to Thaddeus of Edessa, no... no, I have no idea what you're talking about...  Academia... clothing... girlfriend... ancient saint reference.  I got nothing, bro.
okay, I was going to keep this going for a minute...but the time has passed. It was a venture brothers reference.
ah.
Apparently by "beautiful" you mean "unnecessarily moving backgrounds that distract from the ability to read the text."
&gt; That's a 7.  Ok, you've defended the "7." But that still strongly implies it is not the "best" smartwatch, doesn't it?
I'll be that guy: Actually it's not the same diagonal. It's the same horizontal. It's significantly more diagonal.
Horizontal, vertical, diagonal, whatever angle you want, they are all measure same, that's a circle.
Actually, that's not what I meant at all. Sorry.
i also thought that at first, but that view is no longer available, it now looks like this:http://www.genxisocialbuzz.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/apple-watch-friends-220-100.jpg
I know its late to the game, but can you show me the user agent string the browser there is using?
