Users, please be wary of proof. You are welcome to ask for more proof if you find it insufficient.   OP, if you need any help, please message the mods [here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fiama&amp;subject=&amp;message=).  Thank you!   *I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/IAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Hey guys! I was spectating Axiom Verge while my brother played it, I must say, that game is amazing.  My question is, what was the inspiration of the art style you went through? My brother and I are HUGE Metroid fans and this reminded us of Super Metroid very much which is what we liked so much about it.  Also, any chance of the soundtrack being released in physical form?  Thanks!
Hi! First of all, congratulations, huge success! I need to ask, how is Vita port going? :)
A question for Tom: A lot of people keep comparing Axiom Verge to Metroid, but what other games heavily influenced it's development?   A question for Dan: When you were working at Nintendo of America, were you the guy who would ring people to tell developers they had made it onto Nintendo's Indie Developer Program following their application, or was it somebody else who did that?
Proof: https://twitter.com/Dan_Adelman/status/598533441014005761
The art style began as more of a NES-Rygar/Shatterhand/Ninja Gaiden style but eventually changed to a more Metroid/Kid Icarus/Super Mario style owing to my desire for more easily telegraphed destructible "brick" behaviors.  We have plans for a vinyl soundtrack at some point.
Any plans for release on other platforms?
Hello!  I absolutely love Axiom Verge.  It's by far my favorite game since I was a little kid.  I could go on and on about what I love about it but will run out of space!  Just got my platinum trophy today!  Thank you so so much.  A few gameplay questions that I was wondering if you could answer:  1) So far I've found three different weapons in the Secret Areas.  Are there any more?  Any chance of a passcode to have all of the secret guns in one save file, or some other way?  2) Passcodes in general -- are there any interesting cheat passcodes, other than Justin Bailey and the ones that most people know about that you use to open areas in the game?  If so, are there ways to discover these in-game, or what would you recommend to discover them?
What made you decide to use the randomly placed secret areas?   Did you ponder changing the ending based upon completion percentage and time?  There are two weapons, each with six letters in their name, are they connected to the password system at all?
What led you to venturing off on your own? It is a very bold step! and Congrats on the success of the title on ps4. all the best with the steam release!
What is your favorite Metroid game? What is your favorite Castlevania game? What is your favorite game outside the Metroidvania genre?
Many games, most notably:  Contra, Rygar, Blaster Master, Super Mario Bros, Revenge of Shinobi, Symphony of the Night, Star Control, Phantasy Star, Dead Space, Mass Effect...
Love the game. My 4-year-old also enjoys watching me play it for some reason - he calls it "the creepy game".  Tom, what was your process when you came up with the unique abilities and weapons in the game? I was pleasantly surprised that they didn't borrow liberally from other Metroidvania titles.
Spoilers!  To my knowledge, players have found three secret weapons, the Heat Seeker, Fat Beam, and Scissor Beam. Are there any more we haven't found yet? 24 slots for 23 weapons seems rather suspicious! Is there any way to increase the chance of finding a secret weapon?
Vita port is definitely a super high priority and is probably the most frequently asked question. :) Right now we're waiting for some tools from Sony, so there's little that we can do until then. (In case you're not aware, the game was originally made in MonoGame, which is supported by PS4. We're waiting for MonoGame support for Vita.) We've been assured that those tools are actively being worked on, so as soon as we get those, I know Tom will be jumping right on it. The person creating those tools for Sony is using Axiom Verge as one of the test cases for the tool itself, so in some ways it will be designed for Axiom Verge. :)  Just want to make sure that everyone knows that this is super high priority for us. If there are any delays, please know that it's not due to anyone - either at Sony or us - blowing it off or not caring.
Spoilers!  To my knowledge, there are two scenes after the credits, depending on the stats screen just before. Are there any more that we don't know about?
Spoilers!  It's been found that any password starting with AXIOM gives the warning that trophies will be disabled, but to my knowledge, no other effects have been found. Can you give us any hints? =)
How do you decide whether or not to patch an exploit used by speedrunners in your games?  The ability to patch the classic -vania games would greatly impact the speedrunning community, so it seems like a hard decision to make.
My question: What do you think about Sony's Pub Fund? 
There was a different team that did that. There was a bit of weird splintering going on in the last year or two, where a different group started spearheading Nintendo Web Framework. They created a separate process and handled that themselves. It was strange because they were essentially two pathways into the same lobby.
The secret areas are inspired by things like Super Mario's Minus World and Metroid's Secret Worlds, which weren't planned by developers, but glitches.  The reason for the randomization is to replicate the effect you get of something that isn't designed by a human.  There are minor differences in the endings based on completion % and time.  There aren't any passwords hidden in the names of the weapons, but that's a good idea!
Thank's so much for answering my question!  WOW! I was assuming CD, but vinyl? Even better!! Is there any way to get on a mailing list for that because I would be all in for that!!
My favorite Metroid is probably Metroid Prime, and my favorite Castlevania is either SotN or Dawn of Sorrow.  Outside of the Metroid genre, it's a tough call; possibly Mass Effect or Final Fantasy VI.
Definitely! Because Axiom Verge was part of Sony's pub fund, there's an exclusivity window. Once that's up, we want to bring it to all of the consoles. As an ex-Nintendo employee and Metroid fan, I'm personally dying to play this on my New 3DS. :)
Good to know, I have been following the game since I had a nasty stint in hospital a few years ago, have cancelled all plans for tomorrow so I can finally play it :D
[deleted]
Serious question: You've already been asked about the games that you've been influenced by, but what about movies? Have any of those heavily inspired Axiom Verge's atmosphere and aesthetic?  Not so serious question: Do you have a spare Steam key just, like, laying around?  As an aside, the game looks awesome and I'm very much looking forward to playing it. Super Metroid is a top-10 game for me and seeing another game in that mold but distinctly different makes me happy.
Tom,  You mentioned on Twitter you used monogame for the majority of Axiom Verge. Coming from the games industry, you probably had a lot of opportunities to learn first hand the best resources for picking up a framework like monogame.   In your opinion, what are the best resources (specific books, tutorials, etc.) for learning about game development and mastering a framework like monogame?  I think this would benefit many Reddit users, because getting a start in game development is difficult with so many languages, frameworks and opinions scattered about. 
Thanks for doing this guys!  **Question for Tom:** Why was it that you decided to make Axiom Verge a one-man project? Was it so you could do everything your way, the way you wanted it, or for some other reason?  **Question for Dan:** I know you worked for Nintendo for a very long time, and I'm very thankful for all the contributions you made there, especially in the indie market. If you could go back in time and work on marketing and PR for one then-unreleased Nintendo game, which one would it be, and how would you make it a hit?  Thanks again, the game is awesome!
What games do you see coming out now that you think will serve as inspirations to future indie developers (just as metroid with you)? 
1) If you've found all 3 different weapons, you're doing very well!  Very few people have done this.  Currently there isn't a way to get them all in a single save.  2) There are a lot of cheat passcodes.  Be careful as they disable trophies/achievements for the current save if you use them.  At least one is hidden in "plain sight".  I'm expecting that with tomorrow's PC release, they show up in public quite soon (reverse engineered by players) but if not, I'll be drizzling them out over time.
Ah I see, very interesting to hear that as one of the developers who went through/going through the Web Framework process. I have a lot of questions about the business side of things, but it would be rude of me to ask more than the one already asked as there are others wanting to ask questions and such.  Thanks to both of you for doing this :)
What languages, libraries, tools, etc, went into making this game? I'd love to read some details if there is an article somewhere.  This is the best game I've played in years. I hope your next game is a (pre/se)quel to this.
I think it's great.  Sometimes people balk or turn to kickstarter hoping for more funding, but the thing about the Pub Fund is you get huge marketing support.  You'd have to spend hundreds of thousands to millions to get the same level of exposure the Pub Fund gives you.  Don't look that gift horse in the mouth!
For young people wanting to get exposure to the actual creation process of videogames... Do you have any recommendations for software, where to start, etc? What applications were used to create Axiom Verge?
Thank you so much for replying!  Maybe you could whip up an all-guns password then in your spare time? ;)
[deleted]
Do you have any tips for putting together a demo build for a metroidvania? I'm hoping to show off @BiodromeGame at Seattle Indies Expo in August. This will be its first expo booth, so any demo tips would be much appriciated!
I'll speak as the business guy. Tom actually signed up with the pub fund before I got involved. Like with any deal, there's are tradeoffs. (And btw, in case people aren't familiar, the way the pub fund works is that Sony guarantees a minimum level of sales in exchange for a certain window of exclusivity. That minimum guarantee is usually payable upon finishing the game and is then recouped through the sales of the game.)  There were 2 big benefits to Tom's being in the pub fund. The first one is that since he knew he would be getting a certain amount of revenue from the game, he felt comfortable leaving his day job to focus on Axiom Verge full time. He'd been working evenings and weekends for 4 years, but by switching his day job to part time and later quitting it altogether, he was able to get as much done in that last year as the previous 4. Without that guarantee, Axiom Verge might have released in 2019.  The other big benefit is that once Sony has skin in the game, they really want to make sure they're doing everything to make sure the game recoups the minimum guarantee. They were great about including Axiom Verge in all kinds of promotional events like E3, IndieCade, PAX, PlayStation Experience, etc. They put Axiom Verge in kiosks at Best Buy, Target, and GameStop. They also let us put things up on the PlayStation Blog. So all of that was invaluable. I think that was worth more than the actual minimum guarantee.  The downside of course is that we won't be bringing Axiom Verge to other consoles right away. That wasn't that hard of a tradeoff, since it was made in MonoGame, and the other platforms currently don't support MonoGame yet anyway. It may take us until the end of the exclusivity period to port the game anyway.
I'm thinking that 30 years from now it'll be Minecraft, Plants vs. Zombies, and other games that people who are now kids will want to re-invigorate as they grow up to be coders.
Which came first: deciding to include a certain code that is a direct reference to Metroid (not saying which one because it's a bit of a spoiler), or deciding to make the protagonist male?
We have a mailing list signup on the [Axiom Verge website](http://www.axiomverge.com). We've been very bad about sending out mailings to people who have signed up, so we need to do more of that! But yeah, please sign up there and we'll be sure to let you know when we've got new stuff to announce!
As someone who has been waiting for a new 2D Metroid for over 10 years, is there any chance I'll ever be able to play this game on a Nintendo system?   Also, is there anything about Metroid you disliked and made sure to not include/do differently with Axiom Verge?
Definitely put all of your polish into that demo.  If your game is long it can sometimes be helpful to make a special demo-only level that skips right to the best parts so you can show off to journalists.  Make sure your screen is in a visible location on the show floor; if it gets quiet, play your own game so that people get intrigued by what's on screen.
Any time! And feel free to PM me about anything specific!
I'm a Canadian student working towards my Bachelors of Business and Admin, already have a BA, with a dream of working at Nintendo of America or even NoC, tips? Advice? Would greatly appreciate it!
Hello and thanks for doing this AmA!  As someone who really enjoys these types of games, I often felt like there were some design decisions that I couldn't quite understand or get around. I do enjoy the aesthetics of Axiom Verge and the world you've created, but I found it to be extremely difficult to enjoy Axiom Verge.  So here are my questions:  - Are boss battles designed to be random or requiring a specific weapon or set of weapons? Often times I found myself dealing with a boss where I feel as though I'm not well equipped and the strategies I've developed end up not feeling consistent. This feels very true in the later half of the game, especially the final few bosses where it feels as though I'm NES Mega Man trying to avoid things like a modern Bullet Hell shooter.  - A follow up to that last question: What is up with the last boss and the design for that fight? Throughout my playthroughs, the only consistent ways I've found to defeat it is to exploit a hidden platform on the upper right corner or by using a specific weapon to deal with the drones. Other times (such as when I attempted low% in speedrun mode), it was purely random if I would live or die based on RNG if one of the drones dropped health or not.  - What are the reasons for going with more minor upgrades as rewards rather than things that are bit more tangible and useful? I often felt like I was looking for items that only gave me 1/5 of a piece of health or energy, and sometimes even finding a weapon that does little to nothing useful for myself. While I feel as though the game is trying to encourage the player to 100% it, I feel very fatigued by simply finding items that really does not add much to my experience.  - As far as enemy design goes, there's a lot of areas where the game's pace slows down a bit due to enemies needing to be dealt a certain way. Sometimes these encounters may involve the character taking damage in order to progress through. Was this the intended way for some of these encounters? I'm not talking specific boss battles, but just running through tunnels and areas. Enemies will just hit you because they're in the way with no reliable way of getting around them due to lack of items at that point in the game or you have no time to really react to them even if you do.  - The coat teleport is assigned as a double-tap. Why the decision to go with that other than finding another input method? I end up teleporting by accident and sometimes when I do need a teleport, it doesn't come out. It's also a good way to cover space for movement in speedruns, but it either doesn't work consistently enough or the hands just get tired.  - Speaking of speedrun mode. Was it intentional for the game to save upon quitting in speedrun mode? Save and quitting ends up being a popular way of saving time in speedrun mode, but it devalues the in-game clock and splits as much runners opt to go with RTA (Real Time) instead.  I apologize for the huge multi questions. I do want to enjoy Axiom Verge but I have beaten it 3 times over with a weird taste in my mouth every time. If you could shed some light (or perhaps maybe I'm doing something wrong), it would at least give me some more insight as to why these choices went into it.
[deleted]
Thanks for doing this AMA. I love Axiom Verge's music. My question is about the music on the level Kur.  What are the words are saying and in what language? And also, what inspired you when composing your tracks?
The chances of being able to play on a Nintendo system sometime in the next year are pretty good.  Some things I tried to explicitly not do were slow/floaty movements and jumps, the repetition of acquiring missile/bomb expansions, doors that are unlocked by firing certain guns (as opposed to adding a puzzle mechanic), map stations that fill out the map (more a Super Metroid criticism)...
Hi! Thanks for this amazing game, I can't wait to play it tomorrow.  My question to you: What were some of the obscure challenges you faced while developing the game? I'm talking about non obvious stuff that most us wouldn't even think of.
I believe the language is Hindi, and I have no idea what she is saying - I purchased it on  a sample disk of Indian singing; maybe someone can enlighten me :-)
I think Tom and I had very different experiences and reasons, so I'll answer for myself. :) I'd been at Nintendo for a long time, and the best part of it was creating a new business from scratch. You don't really get many opportunities to do something like that in your career. But for the last several years, it wasn't so much about creating a new business as it was maintaining an existing one. It used to be that launching a new system had unique challenges and problems, so those were really fun to think through and design for, but by the end, a lot of it was just adding minor tweaks here and there. My mini startup within Nintendo also started to get incorporated into the larger bureaucracy, so it started to feel less and less like my baby. Which is totally the way it should be. It just wasn't as personally fulfilling anymore.  On the other hand, I had always had an entrepreneurial itch and felt envious of all of these talented indie developers living out their dreams while I was at a large stable company. One day I just thought to myself that if I don't pull the trigger now, I should just resign myself to the fact that I'm never going to. Once I came to that realization that I had to take the initiative to make a change in my life, it felt like a moment of clarity and I questioned why I hadn't done it years before.
that's great, thank you!
There are quite a lot of these!  Some of the basic ones have to do with the requirements/expectations of certain platforms.  For example, PSN Trophies - did you know they have to add up to a certain point value, and that this value is different based on the length of your game?  Then Steam Achievements look outwardly to be the same, but the way you implement them in code is entirely different.  So you end up having to learn many different ways of doing the same thing.
I wish I had a lot more control over the marketing and PR for the digital distribution service in general. I think we missed a lot of opportunities to showcase some of the variety and quality of games on WiiWare, for example. There was a bunch of shovelware which obfuscated some of the really amazing games on there. I think a lot of people remember that World of Goo and Cave Story got their start there (for Cave Story, its commercial start - it obviously had been freeware for years before), but I think most people weren't aware of the BIT.TRIP series, or NyxQuest, or a whole bunch of others. I remember there was a sale on Steam that had a bunch of WiiWare games in it, and some article called it the "WiiWare Games Where You Can Find Them" sale.
Thanks for making Axiom Verge, it was such a brilliant game.  One question I have, was there meant to be a water themed area originally? There is quite a few hints scattered around that suggest that.
Hey Tom, I asked this on a Steam forum thread, but it must have slipped past you:  In regards to PS3/PS4 (Dualshock) controller support on PC: For those of us using an XInput wrapper with our PS3/4 controllers (so they work with every other game), is there a way to override the button displays so we can see the DualShock icons?  Perhaps even a config file change that defines which button prompts are displayed? Assuming you don't have to cut the Playstation buttons due to licensing. 
Awesome, thanks!  I could never get into Mass Effect, but maybe it's time to give it another try.  Approaching Vector at night in the airship in FFVI is definitely a high point in gaming.  I still love the Mode 7 aesthetic.  =)
My rule is that every item/ability should have a unique behavior in the way it moves or controls.  A lot of games will just rely on Rock/Paper/Scissors methods where all weapons are the same but have some attribute on them like Fire/Ice/Electricity making them more or less effective on different doors or creatures.  Coming from the RTS world I think this is really boring and tried to stay away from it.  Once you have those restrictions you start to come up with a lot of different ideas, more than I could put into one game.
I love this track.
I'm a developer - new to game development. What is this game coded in?!
Hi Tom!  Are there any plans for incremental updates to the PS4 Axiom Verge?  Additional weapons/levels/trophies/challenges etc?  ps I was very sorry to hear about Max.  I hope the family is doing ok.  Good luck with the new arrival on its way!
I believe you've found them all.  You can only find one in each save; once you've found all 3, it will randomly select which one appears in the next game.
[deleted]
Beat the game in Story mode, then pay close attention to what happens next.
My favorite Metroid was Super Metroid. And even though I'm not really a strategy game fan in general, I think the best game ever made was Civ II.
Thanks Tom! I never got a chance to see AV in a booth, would you mind giving a quick (preferably spoiler-free) rundown of how it was structured?
Agree!  It seems the little water health meter seems a bit superfluous unless water was a bigger issue later in the game.
Hey Tom,  first off, I really enjoy the game, and can't wait to finish it.  Having played the original Metroid on flaky NES, makes the glitching feature in your game really bring back good childhood memories.  Are you planning adding any additional content in the future?  Thanks for all your work! 
http://www.monogame.net/
I've patched things that could end up crashing the game for non-speedrunners, like the Shards glitch where they keep on firing if you switch weapons mid-shot.  There is an end-boss glitch which is patched in the PC release because the end-boss was made unintentionally hard when I fixed an even worse earlier bug, causing me to redo the AI to come up with something that could be repeatedly defeated by speedrunners while still being difficult for normal players.  Since the boss is now much more predictable, the exploit doesn't serve a good purpose.
Tom! Thanks for this super cool game. A friend and I played it together just like we would play SNES games as kids. Two questions.  1) I've had trouble piecing together the ending from in-game letters and the ending cinematic. What's the significance of Athetos' appearance at the end? (Are you allowed to answer that?)  2) Any sneak peak into future projects you've got in mind?
Man! That sounds really annoying.  Anyway, thanks for the answer! Now I'll make sure to get all Steam Achievements for Axiom Verge, because I'm not going to let all your efforts go in vain.
I'm not a professional game developer, so you can take my feedback with a grain of salt. I think the most important thing is to understand programming concepts rather than focusing on a specific language at first. There's a lot you can do with Scratch from MIT, for example, just to learn how a program works, the basics of object oriented design, etc.  If you want to focus more on the game design side instead of the coding side, using user-generated level design tools is a great way to learn. There's a new Mario game coming out that let's you do that, but it's not the first by any stretch. Little Big Planet, Trials, etc. etc. all have those tools.
Thank you both for the answer!
You're not going to like this, but I hardly ever read programming or game development literature.  I had a definite advantage in that I studied computer science in college, but, when it comes to games, I learned the most from working with other people's code or from trial and error.  A background in programming (like basic object oriented design, algorithms, etc.) will help you spot what is good and what is bad.  For XNA/FNA/Monogame in particular, look up Shawn Hargreave's blog.  One of the best.
The first time I heard that title music on KindaFunny's Let's Plays I could not wait for this game to release on PC.
For business and marketing roles, Nintendo doesn't seem to do a lot of recruiting right out of colleges. (The groups where people join right out of school tend to be in areas like testing or customer support.)  I'd say the best way is to try and get to know people. (Which, coincidentally, is probably what you should be doing for any company you'd want to work for!) Go to events like GDC, PAX, E3, etc. Maybe ask someone to chat about what jobs will be opening in the next few months. Etc. It's really difficult just to apply by sending in your resume blindly unless you have something really specific in your background, like fluency in Japanese or industry experience.  On that last point, one thing you could consider doing is helping out an indie developer with their business and marketing, so that you have some relevant industry experience you can point to.  Good luck!
The DS4 icons should work out of the box.  But I don't have a way to force them for DS3 or other controllers.  I'll definitely give it some thought.
Great info thanks for the reply! 
Congratulations on the good reviews for Axiom Verge, Tom! My main question is what's next for you? I want to remain close to whatever games you decide to work on. 
In a couple of weeks (after I get back from the Nordic Games Conference) I'll be merging the PC code to PS4, which adds the map reminders, volume controls, and major tweaks to the final boss behavior, but there won't be any big DLC in the Destiny sense.
Thanks for the reply. It's a totally low-priority request, would just be nice to have.
The standard demo was really just the beginning of the game. Most of the time, people would die before the end of the demo, but a lot went until the end of the first boss or so. Every once in a while you get someone who just keeps playing, so we put in an endpoint just before the 3rd boss.  Tom also added a save file where Trace has all of the weapons, so players could try them all out. There was also another save file that just put you directly into a boss fight.
Hello Tom, congrats on your game doing well! I was wondering how do you gain inspiration to create the concepts for your games? 
1) The Phawx has done a good job of piecing together much of it, here (SPOILERS):  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OX9Fw2HwyZs  2) I'm thinking the next game will have more of a melee focus, maybe with some RPG-ish elements.
Thank you both for the answer!
Thank you! 
Hi guys!  Thanks for taking the time to do an AMA, as well as appearing on C&amp;G Live yesterday. Ps, thanks for the code! I immediately redeemed and started playing and instantly knew why it'd been praised so highly.  I'm expecting a complex and thoughtful journey, what advice do you have for me?
Hey Tom, great to hear from you. Congratulations on your success---you earned it!   The level design in some areas of your game was just sublime. And this was in two dimensions. Since your game is essentially a love letter to the Metroid games, is there any chance you guy will do a sequel or spiritual successor to Axiom Verge in 3D,  la Metroid Prime? I'd love to see some of that level design prowess in 3D. 
If you could go back and change something about Axiom Verge, what would it be?
There was going to be a small outdoor ocean-themed area - basically three or four rooms worth.  It was a lot of assets to make for something that didn't add very much.  If you have the soundtrack, the bonus track would likely have been used for that area.
Thank you for answering my other questions!  Last one!  Any chance of an Axiom Verge sequel in the future?
You've sometimes said that the game is made with Monogame, and sometimes say it was "Originally made with MonoGame", which makes it sound rewritten, but you still rely on MonoGame support.  Can you elaborate a little on that aspect of the game's development?
I might remove some of the notes.  Most of them were meant as more of a kind of "flavor text", but I've had some people think that if they don't collect all the notes, they are missing the story, or that the amount of notes takes away from the number of items you could otherwise find.
It started as XNA, but once Microsoft withdrew XNA support, I hard to look elsewhere.  So it uses Monogame for PS4/Vita and FNA (which was based on Monogame) for desktops.
I'd say don't be afraid to get lost.  Use your glitch ray on every enemy you see.  If it's the PS4 version, play on Normal - Hard is way harder than I'd meant it to be.
Any plans for an Xbox version ?
Well, I really don't have the throughput or resources to make such a game (also I don't think I'd like leading the large team I'd need to make it), but, never say never.
That's definitely something we want to do, perhaps for 2016.
These questions are really for Tom, but since 99% of the questions in this AMA are directed at him, I'll take a stab at some of these:  &gt; Are boss battles designed to be random or requiring a specific weapon or set of weapons?  Each boss has its own AI and there are good strategies for each. All of the bosses can be defeated if you have the 3 weapons you get toward the beginning of the game that you kind of have to get. Some of the other weapons can make the boss battles easier but none are required.  &gt; What is up with the last boss and the design for that fight?  That actually wound up being a lot harder than originally planned. We found just before launch that there was a way to get all of the drones into a corner and stay there, so Tom fixed their movement, inadvertently making the ending harder than it was supposed to be, especially if you're going for a low % run. This has been fixed in the Steam version and will be updated soon in the PS4 version.  &gt; What are the reasons for going with more minor upgrades as rewards rather than things that are bit more tangible and useful?  Exploration is the biggest focus of the game, so Tom wanted to have lots of things hidden around the world for people to discover. At first all of those 1/5 healths, etc. were full healths. I was actually the first playtester of the game, and I found that the game became ridiculously easy toward the end if you were picking up all of the health and power upgrades. Tom still wanted people to explore the world and look for hidden items, but didn't want it to break the game if you did so. The reward is often not so much about the item that you get as it is the satisfaction of figuring out how to get to some deep, hidden area.  &gt; As far as enemy design goes, there's a lot of areas where the game's pace slows down a bit due to enemies needing to be dealt a certain way. Sometimes these encounters may involve the character taking damage in order to progress through. Was this the intended way for some of these encounters?  I'm not sure I understand what you're referring to. I don't think there are any areas you *have* to take damage. I believe it should be theoretically possible to beat the entire game without taking any damage, though I've never come close to that. :) Any area in particular? I apologize if I missed the point of your question.  &gt; The coat teleport is assigned as a double-tap. Why the decision to go with that other than finding another input method?  Pretty much every other button is taken up by the end of the game with some other purpose. Overall it feels natural (to me, anyway) to double tap to teleport (especially when you need to do it in different directions), but there have been a few times when I do it accidentally toward the end of the game. Usually not enough to bother me, but it sounds like it was enough to be frustrating for you. Definitely good feedback.  &gt; Speaking of speedrun mode. Was it intentional for the game to save upon quitting in speedrun mode?  IIRC, you have to choose to save upon quitting. You can quit without saving. That said, I know I was a little surprised that people were exploiting that so much. I was, however, expecting that people would deliberately commit suicide so they could jump back to their previous save point. Tom and I have talked about adding a button combo that just teleports you back to your last save point so that you don't have to kill yourself or jump back to the title screen. I don't know if or when Tom will be able to implement that.
Sequel... or perhaps prequel... Tom and I were just talking about this yesterday. Once all of the chaos of launch settles down, he's going to start thinking about the next game, but it will definitely be part of this universe.
Other advice - don't try and run and gun your way through. If you take your time as you go through, you should be able to make it through everywhere taking little damage.  And thanks for watching on C&amp;G Live yesterday! Colin's been a huge advocate for the game for a long time.
City of Lost Children, Pandorum, Brazil, I am Legend (not even joking).  Not a movie, but Farscape definitely was an influence.
Brazil is one of my most cherished movies, so that excites me. I haven't seen City of Lost Children but I'll seek it out now. Thanks for the answer.
Give "Game Coding Complete" a look over. It goes over creating everything from scratch. 
Basically ... just live your life.  Watch movies and play video games.  I find it helps to doodle as often as possible when at work or school.
If you could take the world and characters of axiom verge, what genre would you like to put it in? Similar what popcap did with Plants vs Zombies and Garden Warfare. 
Probably a sequel or prequel...I'll definitely tweet about it on @axiomverge and post onthe home page when it starts coming together.
The protagonist was definitely always a male ... I wanted something halfway between Scott Pilgrim and John Crichton (two things which don't blend well at all, but both deserve a bright magenta leotard).
No.
An RPG a la Mass Effect :-)
Dan, it sounds like you worked for 9 years on one side of the negotiating table, and now are on the other side, that's got to be a remarkable advantage.  Can you give a tidbit of how that experience uniquely helps you?  Like, what's something most indies would never think of when trying to negotiate with or get the attention of a company like Sony?
Tom's busy answering a bunch of other questions, so I'll answer on his behalf the question you posed for him, since I've talked with him about it quite at length. :)  Axiom Verge really started out as a hobby/passion project. Tom is just one of those people who enjoys creating things, so doing it as a one-main project wasn't really about the need to maintain control as it was that he just enjoyed making the game. The analogy he used recently was that hiring someone to make part of the game would be like hiring someone to eat part of his dessert.
In an otherwise almost perfect game, why did you decide on making the attacks of the final boss pretty much impossible to dodge?  Other than that, I absolutely loooooved the game! Awesome soundtrack, too.
No, just some minor tweaks like the map reminders in the Steam version.  I'd rather just work on a sequel/prequel.
[deleted]
I loved Axiom Verge to the point I could not put it down.  It has been awhile where I could not wait to wake up in the morning to play a game.  (I think the last one was Dragon Warrior IV)  Do you have plans on increasing staff to put out additional products?  Surely you can't always do everything, but if that is what it takes to create games as fun as this I will wait patiently.
Can't wait for this game to come out on Vita! My question is what's next? This game took 5 years to make, do you think your next project will take less time now you've got a blueprint of sorts?
What are the odds of us getting a Tiny Uruku and Drone plushie? :D
&gt; Many games, most notably: Contra, Rygar, Blaster Master, Super Mario Bros, **Revenge of Shinobi**, Symphony of the Night, Star Control, **Phantasy Star**, Dead Space, **Mass Effect**...  As if I needed another reason to buy the game...
Love Metroidvania games, I would buy it but GTA V is too addicting :( so I cant buy now    What inspired you to make the game?
While most of the other bosses gestated for about 5 years, the final boss went through a big change around September or October when I realized it didn't really fit with anything else I wanted to do, and I redesigned it completely.  The damage sponge nature of the boss wasn't a problem initially because of a bug that made the boss really easy - like so easy people actually complained.  So I fixed the bug and now the boss was too hard.  The new version of the boss (releasing tomorrow) is much more predictable and should be defeatable with little or no damage if you are incredibly skilled.
[deleted]
We're working on it :-)
dude how the frick do I beat that bug boss? It's the one that like leans back and shoots a couple enemies at you sometimes. I can't beat him.
It should.  Also bear in mind that most of those 5 years I was only able to work on it 10-20 hours a week, which shouldn't be an issue now that I can work at home.
[deleted]
Thanks Dan for answering my questions! I'll clarify and point out some things here.  As far as the minimum weapons required, I would assume that you're referring to the Axiom Disruptor, the Nova, and the Kilver? I used those 3 weapons in particular in my low% run including the Lightning Gun and while I did manage to beat the game with those 4 weapons in question, I feel like some of those fights (especially when I can't use the Kilver or the Disruptor) weren't really intended for me to go in without something else or a strategy that didn't seem to be consistent enough. For example (forgive me for forgetting the boss names), the "bee" boss I believe had a strat that involving glitching out the smaller bees to be used against them but I could never get it to work to my advantage. I ultimately spent a good amount of time poking away at the boss with the lightning gun in hopes that it would hit her vulnerable spot (due to lack of items) and hoping that she doesn't randomly thrust forward. Oddly enough, this exact thing happened on my first playthrough where it was a struggle. I still have no idea how to handle this boss.  &gt;I'm not sure I understand what you're referring to. I don't think there are any areas you have to take damage. I believe it should be theoretically possible to beat the entire game without taking any damage, though I've never come close to that. :) Any area in particular? I apologize if I missed the point of your question.  Several specific areas come to mind. Going from Indi to Edin, there's a room there that sticks out really hard in my mind. There's a hidden enemy (humanoidish, runs forward and attacks you until you or it dies) that charges at you and there's not really much of a way to preamturely bait the enemy out. The way that the AI pattern works, it kinda zooms back and forth behind you and in front of you repeatedly, making it hard to dispatch them and more so to just not get hit by them. Another area in particular is in Kur where you're outside for the first time and you have those turtle-like-wheeled-puffing-smoking-thingies that are too wide to jump around, angled in such a way where glitching them is not possible yet, and they take no damage outside of drilling which is hard to do when they're on another platform. There are also some long stretches of tunnels (especially in Zi, Ukkin-Na during its first phase and Mar-Uru) where enemies will just chase you down without much of a way to react. Some of it can be alleviated by bombing prematurely, but you don't get that until way later in the game.  As far as having a button combo to "suicide", I'm all supportive of that. Ultimately, I'm not a huge fan of a lot of save &amp; quit type skips, especially when there is an accurate in-game times. I'll be looking forward to that!    
Love the game, get a lot of looks with the shirt I bought from you guys too :3  One thing I thought was interesting about the game is that a lot of power-ups are kind of just out there in the open, as opposed to something like Metroid where basically every one has its own little room and special holding device.  I was just wondering if you had any insight about that decision? I thought it made it feel a bit more interesting, I never really knew when I'd find something and it didn't feel like some person came here before me and specifically left stuff for me to find.
One thing that I think helps is that I already know a lot of the people at Sony and Microsoft, so getting their attention is relatively easy. They know if they blow me off that they'll just see me at the next event and awkwardness could ensue. :)  I think the biggest advantage in having conversations with the different platforms is that I understand what they can or can't do, and I'm sensitive to the pressures and tradeoffs they need to make. I'm trying to think of an example that wouldn't violate an NDA. :)  In terms of negotiations, I usually strive to find solutions to problems that ideally make everyone better off, or at least won't make anyone worse off. I unfortunately can't go into a ton of detail, but one of the things I was able to do was help Tom work out an arrangement with Sony so that he could quit his day job earlier and take the time to polish up and finish the game the way he wanted to do it.
Thanks for the reply!  I'll be sure to try out the new version.
Axiom Verge has a Linux port, was it a priority for you guys or just a side-effect of using MonoGame/FNA?
A couple tips:  * Aim at his mouth. Especially when he leans back. * Be careful about when he suddenly stabs at you with his stinger. You should try to anticipate that and jump out of the way, since that can do some serious damage. * Try glitching the little bugs he shoots out and exploding them near his face.  But yeah, he's a pain in the ass. :)
Stand out of his spitting range and continuously shoot up at an angle.  When he opens his mouth to fire, jump backwards; your last few bullets will hit him and he'll sting the open air where you were standing.  Repeat this.  My personal favorite weapon for this is the Turbine Pulse. 
i have a new 3ds myself, but would there be any reason it couldnt come to the normal 3ds? i remember a lot of fans being disappointed when binding of issac rebirth was confirmed new 3ds exclusive.  also, would you consider adding steroscopic 3d such a port?
been really excited for the vita release! Hopefully you guys can get the tools you need soon. I'm a huge metroid fan and a developer myself and always wanted to make a metroid style game so you guys are a big inspiration to me personally. I'll be getting it on steam and i already have it cross bought on ps4/vita, and wouldn't be surprised if I get it on 3ds too if you release it. I'm wondering, do you need any more developers for support or upcoming projects?
Fortunately it was both. I really wanted to make sure Linux was supported one way or another, since I'm really looking forward to the Steam Machines this holiday, and I wanted the game to run natively on Steam OS. I also want it to have native support for the Steam controller.  I don't think Tom has tested it on Steam OS yet, but getting it to run on Linux (which worked more or less out of the box) was huge.
A bit of both.  Despite using FNA it was definitely non-trivial to get it working in Linux and OSX.
Awesome! Thanks for answering my dumb question, and congrats on the PC launch, Tom!
Glad you like the shirt!  Giving every item its own special room can work to some extent, but it also endows it with a bit of an "adhering to formula" feel; if you know there is always going to be a special statue or other feature when there's an item, you won't have incentive to explore other areas as much.
This one's somewhat specifically for Dan. I've just been accepted into the Wii U developer's program and wanted to hear some perspective about Nintendo's indie involvement from the inside. While I know you're no longer there, is there anything you can share about how much progress they made towards embracing the Indie dev crowd, and what specifically you think they could still be doing to draw more people in? I'd also be interested to hear if you know any more details about the program currently.
I'll defer to Tom about the power-ups question, but just wanted to say thanks for buying a t-shirt! :) For those who aren't aware, you can get them on the [Axiom Verge website](http://www.axiomverge.com/). In addition, we're going to be announcing an interesting partnership (not sure that's the right word?) with a merchandise company to create lots of new awesome stuff. I believe we'll be talking about that TOMORROW!
I might get an intern or the like to help with QA, Social Media, etc., but I don't like the notion of having a staff.  Can't speak for Dan, though :-)
Another question, if I may: What's the current fastest time of completion (any %)? Tom, what's your personal best (if it isn't the WR)?
Not any time soon (like not in the next couple of years).
I think speedrunners are doing it around 38 minutes; my own best is more like 2.5 hours (I'm no speedrunner).
[deleted]
Hmmmm I'll have to try that. On a more game design focused note. How did you subvert player expectation when solving the metroidesque puzzles? You explicitly pay homage to metroid by starting in the middle and going left which was the core game lesson for the first metroid (i.e. before that you had to move right to progress metroid told you you could go left as well)  but then proceed to elegantly subvert every other trope of the MetroidVania genre. Was that your goal setting out or did you come back to those puzzles later and change things? Also what was your thought process behind all the guns? 
I figured the money made from Axiom Verge might have enabled you to do that. Ah well. You're more than capable of it, as you've shown. Are you taking a vacation now before you go on to your next game? What's that gonna look like?
I've been hearing that the PC version has leaderboards. Are the leaderboards in-game or rather just steam integrated?
They're currently on the steam page.  Once I have enough players to actually have a board, I'll be adding it to the game itself.
Well, I'm following you on Twitter. If any of your needs change and you drop a tweet, expect my resume. :) Congratulations on all your success, you deserve it. Can't wait to play soon. Thank you.
[deleted]
What are your plans for the future? Are you working on another game, sequel, etc., or do you plan on taking it easy for a bit?
I want stickers!
Wonderful to hear you say that.  Technically speaking, do you think Axiom Verge could run on a 3DS?  Or, in your opinion, was the game created for home consoles in mind?  I ask because I'm not too familiar with the game or the 3DS' hardware, but based on everything I've seen on Axiom Verge I would absolutely love the chance to play it on a handheld one day.  
I cannot wait to play your game! I've been a huge fan of metroidvanias since my first game ever (Metroid 2), and this one look like the most legit one to come onto the scene in years! Thank you so much for making it! Will there be a sequel?
Dan meant to post this, but it wouldn't show up (maybe we're not allowed to?)  Here you go!  Hey everyone - thanks for all of your questions! Both Tom and I have to run, but we'll try to check back and answer some of the questions we may have missed.  If you don't already have the PS4 version (and hey, even if you do!) please be sure to check out the Steam release tomorrow! And if you enjoy the game, we'd really appreciate it if you could tell your friends and spread the good word!  Thanks again! This was a lot of fun. Definitely want to do one of these again sometime!  http://store.steampowered.com/app/332200
There is definitely a group of big indie fans at Nintendo, so it's pretty indie friendly.  I think one of the challenges that Nintendo is still struggling with is that a lot of the processes were originally designed with large publishers and retail releases in mind. It works well if a few large companies can develop an understanding of the process over many years, but for a lot of indies, getting through it can be rough.  I don't think the challenge they have is drawing more indies in per se. I think their bigger challenge is in drawing the right indies in. There are a lot of first time developers who are just learning how to make games - which is great - but the sales often aren't there to make Nintendo platforms a priority for developers who have games with a bigger following/more sales potential. One of the ways I think Nintendo could break this cycle is in offsetting some of the financial risk of supporting the platform - or ideally, designing specifically for it. I'd love to see more games like Affordable Space Adventures that are truly designed around the Wii U, for example.
Any chance of a xbox one release?
&gt;We have plans for a vinyl soundtrack at some point.  you have my attention.. im waiting for 65dos to release the NMS vinyl
You could just add an option to the options menu to change which type of buttons is shown :)
Hi Tom, congrats on making such a popular and well-received game! I realize you guys said you were done, but I wanted to ask in case you come back later. How did you learn music composition and what tools did you use?
Oh please do. I loved Axiom Verge, it was an incredibly fun and fresh take on the metroid game style. Thank you so much for scratching an itch I've had for so long. Looking forward to owning it on pc as well.
1. Why do you think, given so many retro games are inspired by Nintendo, that so many indie companies opt to make their games on Non-Nintendo consoles? It always baffles me how so many of their games, and even something like IGA's next Castlevania project which is notably Indie, forego the Wiiu/3DS. I understand its not as simple as a "save as .WiiU" file but is it that much harder to port these games to the console with the legacy that inspired so many and that probably includes demographics that grew up playing these games?   2. Also, if the next Nintendo console featured the same specs/graphics and competed directly against the XBox One and PS4, would you suspect they'd receive the same 3rd party ports at the same release time? I've always wondered if the "nintendo has bad 3rd party support" is damned to be eternal now, and how much of it has to do with the way NIntendo fosters relationships v. Market realities of time/costs to port v. the potential market?
And how long is that exclusivity window?
 Is that PS4 comment just in relation to the final boss or other areas too?
That's interesting because a big part of the reason people are so interested in what frameworks/engines people use is because of exactly that kind of situation, they don't want to pick something that loses support.  So it sounds like in your situation, you chose Monogame specifically because of FNA, as it provided a bridge to transition off of XNA.
Leaving two questions here in the hopes they get answered later...  In terms of the secret rooms, is there a guarantee that there will be a certain number of them each game? I'm just about to head to the final area, and have searched high and low and only found one. There wasn't a special weapon in there either. Is there a chance I'll find another one close to the end?  Also, is there any way to find an mp3 file of the sound that plays when you find a new item? Would love to be able to set it as my notification sound on my phone!  Thanks for the great work on the game. It's my favourite game so far this year.
They have a Vita release planned.  But elsewhere (right below) if you haven't seen it Dan notes that he is dying to play it on his 3ds.  
Glad to hear it! I've been playing AV on my Vita through Remote Play ever since the game came out, and it really feels at home! Can't wait to play it natively!
Will you ever revisit Orn? I'd love to see a full game!
1. There's a conventional wisdom that owners of Nintendo platforms only buy Nintendo games. That's actually untrue, but the impression sticks. Shovel Knight was a great example of a 3rd party doing quite well. That said, depending on what tech someone is using, porting to Wii U/3DS can be quite difficult. (3DS in particular.) And that's just getting the code to run. Nintendo players have (rightfully) come to expect that games will take advantage of some of the features of those systems - something going on on the 2nd screen on Wii U, or 3D support on 3DS, etc. That adds dev time and thus cost. When Nintendo inked the deal with Unity to make it so that Nintendo would cover all licensing fees for the platform, I think the cost of entry fell significantly -- for those developers using Unity. Axiom Verge was developed in MonoGame, so porting to Wii U will be more challenging.  2. The specs/graphics differences play into the equation for AAA games far more than they do for indie games. Wii U is definitely powerful enough to run pretty much any indie game you can think of. But if you're talking about Call of Duty, it's a lot harder. Some studios need to have 2 separate teams -- one for PS4/Xbox One, and another for Wii U. (And the Wii U team may sometimes be lumped in with the Xbox 360/PS3 team.) It becomes hard to justify spinning up an entire team for one platform, when you get the 2 better selling platforms together with one team.
Im studying CS and i understand all the programming basics i have already programmed some classic games but i find it hard to get to the next level i mean, im interested in programming engines what should my next step be? How dows one go from programming a Pong or Snake clone to start programming more serious stuff?
Thank you for the update... been waiting for the Vita version. Keep up the good work!
thanks for answering! I was hoping you could take a second to answer my #2 question better as I think I may have worded it badly.  There is a pervasive idea that nintendo manages third party relationships poorly, and THATS why they don't get 3rd party games. Then there's an alternate idea that the poor support for nintendo platforms is because 3rd parties have to develop for nintendo consoles independently from their Xbox/ps4 skus and they can't justify the expense due to simple cost profit analysis. My question was, if the NX had equal power to the other consoles on the market, what in your opinion would likely happen? Would 3rd parties return to nintendo because of the ease of portability or is there a deeper insurmountable tension in the relationships between Nintendo and 3rd parties that has nothing to do with ease of development/portability 
No, there's no insurmountable tension. Nintendo has great relationships with all of the major publishers. And the publishers want Nintendo to do well. They don't want any one platform becoming too powerful, and they want multiple vibrant markets to sell their games to. They're just not able to take a loss doing so.
My impression has long been that Nintendo has a history of being adversarial with their 3rd parties.  The idea is that Nintendo keeps secrets and doesn't share information.    One briefly famous example was a Star Wars game with light saber duels that launched shortly after the announcement of the Wii Motion Plus, but they had never been told about the Wii Motion Plus.. so.. it immediately made their game look outdated, the fact Wii Sports Resort had sword fighting and it was one of the best parts of the game had to have been insanely frustrating for LucasArts.  http://www.techradar.com/us/news/gaming/lucasarts-unhappy-with-wii-motionplus-launch-452639
Thank you!  When I looked earlier, I hadn't seen Linux listed as a supported platform.  It looks as though we cannot pre-buy on Steam.  Rest assured, you have my money.
I think you made the right choice Dan :D
[deleted]
I will be buying this game tomorrow on Steam due to Jonathan Metts talking about it on RFN and streaming it.  Thanks for releasing a game in this genre!  Was the special thanks he received in the credits due to the meeting with Reggie at E3 or some other reason?  Really enjoyed hearing Jonny's side of the story on the podcast and was curious about your side.
[deleted]
Nice!  Super Metroid is definitely in my top 3 of all time.
Hmm... I spotted that password after my first playthrough but never actually figured out what it did.  I think I finally figured it out, but it's very subtle.  =)  Edit: Nope, still no idea what that did.  lol
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NcYzbqZYosA
Yo Tom. I'm stuck in likkin-na. Think I went there too early. Can't leave the area with my current upgrades and I'm getting murdered by these tiny bits whenever I try and progress. Help?  Edit: Nevermind. Made it further. Still, a way back out of likkin-na without progressing would be helpful.
[deleted]
I'd suggest checking out Warioware DIY for the DS if you want to mess around with some very basic game making tools. I think it is quite cheap now.
What was it like having Koji Igarashi play your game and really seem to get into it. Is he going to finish it?
Thanks for the insight!
&gt; I absolutely love Axiom Verge. It's by far my favorite game since I was a little kid.   I'm not trying to give you a hard time, but could you please clarify what you mean here?
I don't play video games much.  Grew up with a Nintendo and then Super Nintendo, and my favorite game ever was Super Metroid, which I played as a kid.  This game really captures that nostalgia for me and I spend more hours playing this than most games I can think of in the past decade or so, with maybe a few exceptions like Metroid Prime.  I know it's an entirely different type of experience and can't really get compared to the big games of today, but for me it just hit that sweet spot.  I love that because it's relatively niche, there isn't much about it so you genuinely feel like you are discovering secrets on your own.  That help clarify?
Yep that clarified it! Instead of reading it as "Since childhood I had a favorite game, but Axiom Verge has superseded that title." I was reading it as "Since I was a child, my favorite game has always been Axiom Verge" Which I just found utterly confusing since it was released two months ago. "Yeesh kids these days are growing up so fast."  I can't make any recommendations as far as a sense of exploration due to niche market size (that is quite an appealing aspect and I scorn the internet every time I play a rouge-like because it soils that part of the experience). On the theme of Metroid-likes, have you tried any of the post-16bit era Castlevanias? Symphony of the night and the gba/DS games, to be clear, not the ps2/3 ones. AlsoCave story, Shadow complex, and The Rocksteady Batman games.
I seem to be a bit late, but on the off chance this gets seen anyway, I have a few story questions. Context: I write fanfiction, have a piece in mind, and want to not break canon if I can avoid it. Some of these might have been answered in the game script but I can't find a copy online yet, and I suspect I won't get another chance to ask.  1. What exactly is a PatternMind, and what power(s) do they actually have? What's special about Trace/Athetos? 3. Why does the plague that kills the Sudrans instead turn the Variants into insane monsters? (I have a theory about this: If the plague induces hallucinations in everybody, and if PatternMinds are capable of warping their local realities as seems implied, then I could see their own hallucinations being made real. But I can't find in-game confirmation of that as the intended mechanism). 4. You mentioned in another answer that The Phawx got most of the story right. He presented two theories, a single-universe and multi-universe one. Which was correct? 5. Are the events described in "The Kuliltu" and "Anonymous Quote" the same event? Was this when Trace came to Sudra the first time, or an earlier event involving other PatternMinds, perhaps the event that caused the Sudrans to discard or seal high technology? 6. What is the cosmology of the game like? Based on "Faded Note", "Land of Civilized Kings", and Athetos's dialogue before the final boss, I concluded that the Breach separates Earth from Sudra and the Filter separates Sudra from a pan-universal civilization beyond it. Is that correct? 7. To what extent should the effects of the glitch gun be considered as an interesting game mechanic, vs. a meaningful manifestation of the game's world? (i.e. is the glitch gun just fun for us or is the game's cosmology sufficiently computational that "glitching" it is a thing that really happens?) 8. Athetos kept some information from Trace on the grounds that the Rusalki would kill him for knowing it. What information and why?
Haha yes sorry, poor wording on my part!  Thanks for the recommendations!  I did like the Castlevanias a lot, especially the GBA and DS ones.  Can't remember which ones specifically, but I was really into them.  Loved collecting the bestiary and leveling up.  I've tried to get Cave Story on my Mac, but the one on Steam constantly crashed my computer and I had to get a refund.  I'm pretty sure I'd enjoy that one as well.  Haven't tried the others -- will give them a look.  Thanks again!
Bionic Commando as well, I'd suspect.
I have Axiom Verge for PS4, which is cool, but I rather have it for Vita. Remote play will only work when im home, so i rather have a standalone version, please hurry! I sugest after the Vita release, you try to develop a ninja-gaiden-like game, or something like the old prince of persia games (dungeons, traps, sword fighting, puzzles, but including time manipulation).. What do you think?
I'm surprised Half Life isn't on that list. When telling other folks about the game, I describe it as "...if Metroid and Half Life had a kid."
Perhaps you shouldn't have announced the Vita version initially, then? Seems silly if the tools were not at hand.   While I have a ps4, I bought this game because it was coming to Vita. Now it seems I'll be waiting at least until 2016.
Dude, I KNEW there was blaster-master in there, I could feel it, see it, and HEAR it more than anything else - enemy damage sounds and design had a TON of blaster master. Goddamnit I loved that game. And this game.
