So are you able to talk about the Chen case?   Been wondering what had happened with that.   Second, What is it like working at Gawker?
What brings you back to Gizmodo? What did you do between tour two and this one? Do you find the iPad to actually be useful and superior to a laptop and a pad of paper in a business setting?  That's all I've got, love the site!
Get out of here, Gizmodo sucks.  Don't ruin reddit.
How did you know my full name is "Gizmodo sucks"? (It's Icelandic.)
I had been working at Boing Boing for about a year-and-a-half when that all sort of fell apart. (We had differences about where the brand should go, so I left, since it was their site, not mine. That perhaps sounds more dramatic than it was. We're all still friendly.)  I did that JetBlue "All You Can Jet" thing last year, ended up stuck in New York for a few days during the Gizmodo Gallery, and hung out with the crew, many of whom were newer additions since I'd last been around 3-4 years ago. We started talking ideas. It sounded fun, so I signed up planning to stick around for six months. It's been about nine so far!  I also worked for Wired.com, did a lot of freelance magazine writing, and tried starting up my own online magazine (Dethroner.com) in the interim. Some of those worked better than others.  As for the iPad and business, I don't really have what I would imagine is a typical "business" regimen when I'm out and about, at least as far as needing to do a lot of editing of Office docs and the like. As long as I have a browser and a text editor, I'm golden.  I did end up selling my laptop and have been using my iPad as my exclusive travel computer since. With a proper keyboard (I use the Apple Bluetooth one, which I think is tops) it's a fantastic travel computer. I really do think the tablet form factor is going to become more and more popular. That will be a market Apple will dominate if Android doesn't come together nicely for tablets. (Windows is a non-starter, by my estimation.)  But you have to remember I have a full-blown computer at home. (I'm typing this on it now.) I'm continually amazed at how capable the iPad can be, but it's not quite ready to be my only computer. Give the form factor another couple of years to grow, however, and I think it'll give laptops a run for their money. It's hard to beat tens-of-hours of battery life, light weight, and the intimate interface.
Wow, that must make for an awkward nameplate on your desk.
Why are most Gizmodo articles fluff?
Joel, your writing was what I most enjoyed about BB Gadgets. Your writing for Gizmodo is definitely one of their strong points. 
Even if I could talk about the Chen case, I wouldn't have much to say you can't find publicly. It's not something we spend a lot of time discussing these days and as far as I can tell everyone is just waiting for the gears to turn.  "Working at Gawker" can mean a lot of things. If you're in NYC and work out of the office, that's got a more traditional newsroom flavor than what I do, which is work from home. (I used to go into the old office when I was Executive Editor and lived in New York, but even then I preferred working from home.)  The best thing about Gawker is that you can pretty much write about anything you like from whatever angle you like--as long as it gets traffic.  The worst thing about Gawker is that everything has to get traffic.  I have a lot of personal thoughts about the nature of online media, tabloid vs. "traditional" journalism, etc., but as much as I hate the pressure that is always looming over Gawker editors--you never really know how secure your job is, although things have gotten more stable overall over the last few years--I can't deny that the pressure to make a story "hit" can bring just as many good habits as bad: clear headlines; zeroing in on the part of the story people actually want to discuss instead of the "important but boring" part; the benefit of actually reporting and uncovering new information, as well as the pain of uncovering something novel only to see it get little relative attention.  In this day and age, though, with many talented writers and journalists falling by the wayside, it remains one of the more interesting, innovative places to work around. Denton may push too far sometimes, but better that than timidity, I figure.
Why are most Reddit threads fluff? Because not every subject deserves a deep dive.
Why is everyone at Gizmodo an apple fanboy?
I will wait to reply to this question when it is phrased as "Why do you guys hate Apple so much?"
So there are still wheels turning. That would explain why I've only been able to find postulates and guesses at the results of several rulings. (I'm interested because I'm involved with a similiar situation under the Whistle Blower Act).  The point of getting traffic does make sense as to why and where the direction of gawker and giz articles run. As a sales exec I knew kept saying, "You gotta make things pop pop pop!" Right before I threw his coffee mug at him.   Very nice response, thank you Joe. 
Why do you guys hate Apple so much?
I will wait to reply to this question when it is phrased as "Why is everyone at Gizmodo an Apple fanboy?"
What's the best way to get you to notice a news tip I send in if it's something interesting, like [this?](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1bBGqmASsJs&amp;sns=em)
Is there any actual professional people at gawker, or is it just a buncha hipsters that link to articles they see on other sites in between showing each other their ironic tattoos?  Are the women who work for jezebel all man-hating warrior-dykes?  Why did you ditch consumerist?   I DO like io9. 
Nope... that's my question and I'm sticking to it.   Here's another question if you don't want to answer that one. I have done a lot of PR in my life and I know a significant amount of the news is actually corporate PR crap. How much of your (Gizmodo's) writing is based off of Press Kits and Press releases? 
Yeah, I'll have to agree on the apple fanboy angle. Not a single day does by where a major apple/stevejobs article appears. Really, how many pics of of a modified apple-laptop-cover can you guys post without getting tired? 
Exactly. I haven't bothered to look it up though, but I think it's a few writers who write the bulk of the apple-gasm articles. 
Why is everyone at Gi... WHY YOU!
1. Yes.  2. I'll let you know when I actually talk to any of them.  3. It didn't make money. (I founded Consumerist, but I was glad to see them sold to Consumer Reports. It's a great fit.)  4. Noted.
The Jezebel ladies refuse to talk to anyone else in gawker media because they continue to promote the male run patriarchal system that represses women. Also, he's probably doesn't have enough game to talk to one of them. 
A surprisingly small number of stories actually come directly out of press releases. We look at them, of course, but so many are just...boring. Just reporting that a gadget or service exists is rarely worth writing about. (Unless it's from Apple. SWIDT?)
That's actually pretty surprising. One of my reporter friends guessed that about 60% of the stuff they produce is straight from releases. That's pretty low considering most researchers estimate it to be 70-80 for written news and up to 90% for television. Anyway... good on ya for keeping it real. 
Whats the process of becoming a writer for a gawker site? How much are writers paid? Is it pay per post, or tiered by amount of traffic the article brings in or CTR? Can a writer be located anywhere, or must you be close to the offices?
If you compare your tech blog to reddit, your blog sucks.  But you work for Gawker so you already knew that. :)
Do you know Andre?
Hmmm pardon me, could you repeat that? I couldn't hear you with Apple's balls in your mouth.
Do you love or hate "The Big Board"?
I do not.  Edit: I do.
I don't really think about it. It helps that I work from home, so I don't have to see it every time I walk into the office, but I would imagine that it would be irritating on the days when my stories aren't tracking well, and invigorating on the days that they do. Competition is compelling.
What do you think of Deadspin?
So says you. But the genesis of Gizmodo (and the Gawker-style commercial blog in general) was the idea that aggregation/curation was a valuable tool. Other sites have taken that idea and run with it (Digg, Reddit, Techmeme, Slashdot before all of them) but our traffic numbers certain imply that we're useful--or failing that--entertaining to plenty of people.  It is clear, though, that aggregation only gets you so far. We put a lot of energy into breaking, analyzing, and contextualizing news, not just linking to other reports.
I want one for my office. Happen to know the system behind it, offhand?
These days there's no set-in-stone answer to any of those questions. We promote from the intern pool, hire writers with previous reporting experience from both major media orgs or just non-pro blogging, and (very occasionally) hire people who send in resumes. Like any job, the best thing to do is to show us an example of how you'd be great at your job and great to work with. People who send clips are usually ignored by default.  Pay is usually just salaried now. No more pay-for-post. That model worked great years ago, but not so much anymore.
You know, I hardly read it. And when I do, I think, "Fuck, I should be reading this. It's great." Plus AJ has completely embraced the fearlessness one should have working for Gawker. But I don't care enough about sports to think about it on a daily basis. I pretty much love watching live football and that's it.
You do realize that Apple is the largest, most influential consumer technology company in the world, right?
Why does your penis taste like your step-dad's bad breath?
Youre in a desert walking along in the sand when all of the sudden you look down, and you see a tortoise, crawling toward you. You reach down, you flip the tortoise over on its back. The tortoise lays on its back, its belly baking in the hot sun, beating its legs trying to turn itself over, but it cant, not without your help. But youre not helping. Why is that?
Why do you hate star wars?
How do you get paid?  Per article, hourly, salary?  Do all the writers/editors get paid the same way?  Why do you think Gizmodo does so well (in comparison to similar blogs/sites)?  Do you think larger companies owning these blog type sites is a good idea?  If you were tasked with creating a company that can compete directly with Gawker, how would you go about doing it?
First, I appreciate Gawker for making their websites mobile friendly (the m. sites).  They are clean, fast loading, and still get me to the content.  My questions: 1. How many people at Gizmodo graduated from N.C. State.  There just seem to be a lot of Wolfpack alumni in tech reporting, so I thought I would ask. 2. How would you rank the other sites within Gawker, by your own interest?
We have mac minis connected to 9 HD-TV's. We run Firefox and Plainview in fullscreen running a few different web applications. During a typical day we have Quantcast graphs, a Citrix console (load balancer), real-time ChartBeat information, and a few of our sites set to auto-refresh.  When we have events we'll put up fun images or logos.
What a horrible person you must be.
Star Wars?
1. Salaried, for the most part.  2. Not everyone makes the same amount of money, I'm sure. But I don't know how much everyone makes. I'm not management anymore.  3. I think to some extent success begets success. If you liked Gizmodo yesterday, you might like it today, so you'll come visit. It's been around for, what, seven years now? The traffic builds up.  I also think that Gizmodo, when operating correctly, rides the knife edge between silly, dumb, shocking, ghastly, tabloid pop and actual smart analysis. We've tried to stay irreverent without being childish, to have fun while reporting real news. And sometimes, just every so often, we get it right.  4. Larger how? Gawker-large? Or AOL-large?  5. I'm not sure it could be done right now, mostly because the revenue streams for small media sites are so haphazzard and the real money doesn't start coming in until you get into the 10-20MM uniques-a-month range. If you're not big enough to have an internal ad sales team, you're still at the whim of others.  I have tons and tons of things I would suggest to companies wanting to compete in the space, but the first question I would ask anyone with a couple of million dollars sitting around to invest in a new company would be: Why not invest in something less risky than media?
You da man.  Thank you sir.
[deleted]
Sites like ArsTechnica maintain professionalism in their articles through their choice of topics and writing and editorial styles. Engadget, who I assume is your main rival site, is more toward a casual voice, but they are still firmly on the side of professionalism. Gizmodo seems to have started (1-2 years ago or so) disregarding a proper voice in favour of a very casual style. Articles seem to have more opinion in them, even for things as simple as product announcements.  This shift in style for the blog is not my cup of tea, but I am sure it does appeal to a certain audience. Was there a conscious decision to shift the voice of Gizmodo from a more proper, professional voice to a less objective, casual voice? 
What do you think smartphones will be like in 10 years? 
[deleted]
Did you like working at Boing Boing?  What difference in opinion on branding did you have with the rest of the core staff?  How did it compare to other places that you've worked?  (I'm a big fan of Boing Boing.)
Should I buy a 3d tv now, or wait?  How long should I wait?   (Note to consider, I love 3d things, but hate high prices)  Should I buy a 3d graphics card for my computer, or wait until I have a 3d tv and get my computer to show on that?
Do you consider yourself a journalist, or just SEO/advertising? 
The pithy answer is that I am a journalist when I am practicing journalism, a writer when I am just writing, and a clickwhore when I am whoring clicks.
That's too far out for me to think I have any ability to predict, but since you asked I'll go Captain Predicto: I bet that "smartphones" in ten years will just be little lumps of storage, radios, and sensors. They might still have screens, but they'll be screens of last resort. Mostly they'll be sending graphics through tiny built-in projectors or any screen that's in the room, while input will be handle with a synthesis of voice, eye, motion, and--for those rare times you want to write a lot of characters at once--keyboards.  I don't think it's too far fetched to think that our phones will just become sensor packages that let us connect to the cloud, local networks, and local hardware. (Including our cars, etc.)  Of course, there are a million and one security and UX hurdles to be cleared, not to mention the problems of raw wireless bandwidth across big countries like the US, not to mention who will actually be providing the infrastructure.  I think camera-based interfaces will finally take off in the next decade, a la the Kinect. And I think your phone will exist primarily to provide that interface.  But ten years is forever! We could do 90% of that today with focused engineering. Capability and imagination are cheap. Execution is expensive.
Hey Joel, I enjoy browsing kotaku, gizmodo, io9, and lifehacker. Occasionally jezebel as well. My question is when will you guys move up here to the so-called Great White North (Cough Toronto! cough) that way I can meet you all and talk over lunch. No one every visits Toronto. =[
Loved it. Miss it all the time. Sweet, sincere, smart people.  Basically when I came on board it was in part to help Boing Boing figure out how to expand outside of the core blog into sub-blogs like Boing Boing Gadgets and Offworld. Turns out the business side of things didn't make as much sense as we hoped.  They're doing great now, though, and as much as it hurts to see BBG and Offworld gone, the rest of Boing Boing has never been better editorially or stronger financially, from what I can tell.
3DTV is a gimmick, albeit one that is occasionally amusing. I wouldn't spend a premium to get a 3D set, though; just wait until it's included in all TVs.
Actually, ever since I ran Gizmodo (2004 to maybe 2007?) it's had a pretty aggressive, light-hearted tone. I haven't always liked the sense of humor different editors have had over the years, but I've always liked that the sense of humor is there.  I think it's a vital tool for anyone who reviews things for a living to be able to literally use the term "piece of shit" to describe a product that is a piece of shit. It's a time saver for everybody.  Plus, while I respect Ars and Engadget tremendously, that they have the tone they do is half the reason Gizmodo can have the tone it does. If we were the only outlet for technology news on the web then I might buy an argument that says we should be more austere, but there's more tech news than just about anything else online. We don't have to sound like the New York Times because we don't want to be the New York Times of tech.
1. No idea! None that I know of, but I've never asked.  2. 1. Gizmodo.com     2. The Site Where I Log In To Check If I've Been Paid  (Making a list would be rude, but I don't check every Gawker site every day. Some I only check every other day.)
I will love Star Wars again when J.J. Abrams directs the reboot.
Do you have interns? How do you apply? Do you have a legal dept? What bene's do you guys get(non-monetary)? Who is the coolest person you have met as part of your job? What company has the most receptive PR dept? 
Hey! No recursion!
I'd say Google and Microsoft are much more influential as they have much larger userbases.
Largest in terms of what exactly? Most influential is subjective.
No questions... just wanted to stop in and say that since early in the year, your articles have gotten worse and worse. You guys aren't journalists, don't try to pretend like it.   Also, thanks for "deal of the day" that lead me to a spam site. Really appreciated that one.
What are your thoughts on what J.J. Abrams did to Star Trek?
... Shit storm en-route...
Tons of interns. We put up a post on the site when we're looking for new ones. It's next-to-no pay and we work you to the bone. Sign up today!  Benefits are all the usual stuff. For the first several years I worked at Gawker there was no insurance, but now there is. It's like a real company!  Coolest? I've met a lot of engineers and inventors who have helped create some of the things we use everyday. That's always cool. Matt Buchanan and I recently got to meet the guy who lead the team in Israel that designed the Pentium M for Intel. (He's at Microsoft now leading the Xbox Hardware group.) That was a shit-hot chip back in the day that totally changed the Intel consumer roadmap. So that was cool.  I've met plenty of high-level executives, too, but they aren't always cool. Bill Gates wasn't cool, per se, but he was nice and accommodating to my stammered interview questions. Peter Moore was always a pleasure to talk to back in his Xbox days. (I am sensing a pattern! As much as Microsoft screws the pooch on their consumer product side at times, they do give you a lot of access to people who are allowed to talk like humans. That's always nice.)  I've gotten to meet a few celebrities, etc. That's pretty much par for the course when you do this sort of thing. It's definitely exciting and it's a fun perk, but at the end of the day you're just one in a long line of anonymous journos who they meet with, spend a few minutes with answering questions, and never think of again.  Most major corporations that handle PR internally are moderately easy to work with. The only one that is hard to work with--not out of incompetence, which is typical, but from calculation--is Apple. (Even before The Incident.) They're just a bear. But when they *do* actually want to speak to you, they can be great.  Mostly as long as a PR arm doesn't get between me and the engineers who actually have the answers to the questions I have, we're good.
The Star Trek reboot ruled, especially if you didn't try to analyze the plot too rigorously. I think time travel is poison to science fiction, but I still bought it. I think it helps that Star Trek has always been about the characters first, the ideas second. Or maybe better stated, that the characters have stood the test of time more ably than many of the plotlines have.
It is subjective, but on terms of pushing UX + hardware forward, especially in the mobile space, I don't think anyone can contest that Apple is currently leading the way.  Their market cap is massive. Second only to Exxon. I'd grant that's not a measure of *quality*, per se, but it certainly means *something*.  It's all subjective, you're right, but while I don't deny that Microsoft and Google have more "traditional" users, when you factor in the iPod I'm not sure even that's true anymore. Do you know anyone without a single Apple product in their house? They're out there, naturally, but they've gone from a niche computer company to a major consumer electronics player in a decade.  I don't want to get trapped in the "Apple fanboy" debate, though, because ultimately I think it's facile and pointless. I think Apple is overall the most interesting company right now, but I also think other companies make great products and have the potential--if not the wherewithal--to innovate as well or as imaginatively as Apple currently does. It's just so few are doing it.
Glad to help! I personally promise you will always be satisfied with everything on Gizmodo from now until the end of time.
Aside from a broken iPod, I don't think I have any Apple products. Not even out of principle, I just don't happen to have any.  Anyway, I'm not accusing you of fanboyism, I think that's a pointless argument as well.  Wouldn't you say, though, that since it is subjective, and since you are saying that they are the most interesting, that you are at least a little bit biased? I think that's only human.
JJ Abrams actually destroyed the very essence of Star Trek recently. Would you imagine him acting differently on Star Wars remakes? Nopes. Same old same old.
Have you watched good time travel movies like Primer and Time Crimes?
Agreed, JJ's Star Trek was not Star Trek... but I could see it working for Star Wars.
you are welcome to argue that Apple is the most influential. but, HP is the largest tech company in the world: http://www.reuters.com/article/idUKN1524431620100815  regardless of whether they are the largest/most influential, the question you have yet to answer is -- why do your writers salivate so shamelessly at everything apple?
&gt;Also, he's probably doesn't have enough game to talk to one of them.   He's the editor. The "I-can't-talk-to-women-derp" phase in some mens lives ends pretty quickly when they have to work with women. You are not funny.
There's a reasonable argument to be made that Abrams' Star Trek was more heavily influenced by Star Wars than anything post-TOS.
I'd happily cop to a *little* bias. One does one's best to remove it, but it'd be stupid to pretend that I didn't have some inbuilt affection for the brand, especially since I use so many of their products on a daily basis, which surely sets up a bit of a fanback-loop.
[This was an incredibly childish thing to do,](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJRwZMG5GQ4) people put a ton of effort into presentations and should be allowed to give them without fear of some giggling asshat with a remote fucking the whole thing up.
I have not watched either of those. I'm pretty sure I put Primer in my Netflix cue next year.
Yeah, I would agree with this. It just... wasn't Star Trek.
Yeah the market cap means a lot of idiots buy into it. Their revenue is lower than dell even though their market cap is 10 times as high.
I still like gizmodo have been reading for years, Normally I hit engadget, gizmodo and lifehacker. Recently it seems most of the giz stuff just follows after engadget.  I also read boy genius.   I have jezebel blocked in my hosts file, I have never seen such a man hating website in my whole life.   If they dont like what you have to say there, they will edit your post and make all the words scrambled, I guess as a way to degrade you? Just for not agreeing with you.   So they hate men, think they are evil scum of the earth, don't try to tell them different 
&gt; Do you know anyone without a single Apple product in their house?  My house. There's four of us in our early twenties living there. We run a computer repair store from home as well. I'm happy to say we odn't have a single apple product in the house.
Joel, what *is* with your obsession with Clint Ecker anyway?   ;)
What are your thoughts on toilet-equipped Ford Econoline surveillance vans?
&gt;We put a lot of money into purchasing stolen property as well as linking to other reports.  FTFY
Or, you could go down the "Top Model" route, as we did at Jalopnik: http://jalopnik.com/tag/nexttopcarblogger/
Why is Jesus Diaz such an asshole?   The rest of the Gizmodo editors/interns are generally pretty cool, but Diaz's articles and comments to other commenters are always rude, angry and poorly written.
Could something like Gizmodo launch now? There were several big gadget site launches in the past year (GDGT, Tested) and they all seemed to come from established players. When Giz and Gawker began, they were written by unknowns, and even Denton was something of an unknown. Do you think that moment has passed, or can new, independent voices still gain a large following? If so, how?
[deleted]
Another Giz person here.   Re: NC State, I think nobody. Sean Fallon was a writer for a long time and he was a State alum IIRC. 
That's bullshit. Star Trek hasn't been Star Trek since TNG. It's a wildly uneven, internally inconsistent vision of the future that varies from show to show, movie to movie, and even season to season. It mixes magic (*Reroute the forward wands, Harry!*), Culture-like utopianism, mythic archetypes, and soap operas all in a mush that was broken beyond repair. The new movie wasn't perfect, but it was parsecs beyond what Trek had been for a while.  I have a great fondness for Star Trek, but not so much that I want to spend any more of life dwelling it its past future. I'd love a hard--well *harder*--sci-fi series that could run for a few seasons and explore new ideas, not unlike what I'm hoping Ice &amp; Fire on HBO will do to move the fantasy genre on television forward. But Trek has had plenty of chances to evolve and improve over the last decade or two and they bungled almost each and every opportunity.
You seem to have a hate/love relationship with Daring Fireball. I know a lot of the beef seems to stem from Gruber's skewering the Giz over the Chen case, but it definitely seems deeper than that, more personal, especially from you. What are your thoughts on what Gruber does, what role he plays in a lot of the coverage of Apple, and how that affects what the Giz does?   Gizmodo, like a lot of the Gawker family, seems to have to hit the panic switch on commenters a lot, try to weed out the problem commenters. What kind of discussions happen internally about the comments section? How vital are they to what you do as writers and producers? Are you ever tempted to say F THIS and never turn them back on?  You've written really deep, meaningful pieces for them and then gotten barely any clicks on it, while the snarky pieces or reviews of fart apps get all the click glory. Does that affect how you approach being an editor for the Gizmodo? What would an ideal Giz look like to you, if you could shape its audience from scratch? 
TMZ gets traffic too. It doesn't follow that they are producing worthwhile journalism.
Hey Joel,  Regular Giz reader/commenter here. I actually have some of those awesomely meaningless stars on a few other Gawker sites along Gizmodo, so I really don't have any questions beyond what I normally read from ya'll, EXCEPT FOR BIG ONE:  What is your opinion of Jesus Diaz? Be honest now.  Good luck with your upcoming trip; your posts about all the preparation makes me excited for you. It sounds like it'll be amazing. Don't die, and make sure you let us know where all the best places to grab a beer are.
I think with a lot of things like that you can't really objectively say which is best, and it comes down to personal preference. Like if you compare the iPhone to some android phones or the palm pre plus or something. Those are all cutting edge, and I don't think one is better than the rest, just different.
I don't know if I totally agree with this. While I think TNG was the peak for Star Trek, I don't think I'd write off everything that came afterwards. DS9 was a departure from the norm which (at least in my mind) certainly didn't have uniformly negative results, and Voyager, while crappy, at least tried to stay somewhat true to the core of Star Trek. I never watched Enterprise and can't comment.  I expect my Star Trek to come with deliberate pacing, thoughtful characters, reflection on the human condition or society, and exploration of the unknown. JJ Abrams gave me... a really awesome  Sci-Fi action movie. It was a lot of fun, but to me it represented a rather inconsiderate dumbing down of the franchise.   I don't begrudge the guy making movies that sell tickets and give people a rush, it was just a sad bubble burst moment for me as a longtime Trek fan.  
I am currently seeing what you did there. (Also I have moved on from Econoline fandom to Land Cruiser fandom.)
Weren't they the ones that ran the third person rumor that Brett Farve sends people pictures of his junk.   Why do the Gawker properties keep publishing this kind of garbage?   Are you really proud to be associated with that? 
What do you think is the most under rated piece of consumer technology? And, if you only had 100 bucks to spend on a new piece of gear, what would it be? 
Bingo. I love sports, but kinda hate the tabloids side of sports, which is what a lot of Deadspin deals in. However, I love reading both Daulerio and Drew, and those two are the mean reason I keep checking over there.
Of all the people in the world to whom I don't have to explain Clint Ecker's deliciousness...
[deleted]
Doesn't the very fact that a site gets incredible amounts of traffic explicitly mean they are producing extremely worthwhile content to a lot of people?  How can you speak for the millions of people who proactively visit and read those things?  Perhaps you mean "they aren't producing worthwhile journalism... _that i personally would like to read_."
A fair point. But it was also just a prank--at CES of all places, which is one big cum-soaked orgy to wasteful consumerism masked in plastic and aspiration.  Moreover, the main guy who was pranked, from Motorola, thought it was hilarious when he found out what happened. (Or so I'm told.) So while you're welcome to your own opinion, he doesn't need your white-knighting it.  The only problem with that prank in my estimation was that it didn't really *say* anything. It was just fucking around for fucking around's sake, which is only half of the recipe to a really successful move like that.
Joel is a pretty outgoing, sexy man.  Too bad he's already spoken for (by me).
I first found Joel through Dethroner rather than Gizmodo. He popped back up there and then was over at Boing Boing. (nice work on Gadgets and offworld, also I'll never forget Coffee week and  poo weeks at Dethroner) If/when the luster wears off of this round at Gawker what else is on Joel's to do list? Still going on that drive south?
Stealing iPhones... Disrupting CES presentations... Or perhaps just reposting Reddit threads: http://gizmodo.com/5655514/want-to-know-if-the-fbi-is-tracking-you-look-for-one-of-these  You're right. It's not journalism that I personally would like to read.
I've got your site on my RSS feed, but if I don't check it for a single day it gets like 400 updates and when the first post is some dumb crap I just tell it to mark every post as read.  Just thought you'd like to know.
I think you've got it.  Not all sites have to approach all things the exact same way.  That would make for the most boring possible scenario possible.  I really, really respect Gizmodo for being able to tell it like it is and be true to who they are.  They also produce awesome shit.  I like that I feel like when I read a Gizmodo article I feel like I'm reading a textual representation of something my gadget saavy buddy wrote.  I think there's a place in the world for all kinds of editorial.  I find that most online readers have an exceptionally narrow idea of how "journalism" ought to be.  N.B. I work for Ars ;)
Do you support Gizmodo's apparently open policy of buying stories?  I love Lifehacker and Kotaku, not so much Jezebel (I find their logic to be... well, nonsensical to me, anyway), and have stopped reading Gizmodo since they announced this policy was common practice (so maybe it's a bit of a charged question).  I still rate Gizmodo above Arrington's blatant trolling, but would prefer... I don't know. A higher standard of ethics? Or maybe social responsibility.  \*stops rambling\*
In that case I hope someone does a DoS attack on your homepage, after all it would just be a prank on one big cum-soaked orgy to wasteful consumerism masked in plastic and aspiration. 
Yes, in the same sense that people who manufacture crack are producing a worthwhile product.
Who isn't obsessed with Clint Ecker?
I could start a site that could take on any news site in the world tomorrow...provided you gave me enough money to hire enough writers to produce enough content. Would the content be useful or important? Maybe. But you can fix that in time. Good content isn't a mystery. Millions of people in the media have been doing it for a couple hundred years.  What *is* hard now is the idea that you can start something on a shoestring and make it into an instant business. Not because the time for building up media brands on the internet from scratch is past--remember that Gizmodo is seven years old; it always takes time to build an audience--but that the moment where ad dollars online were easy to get is behind us.  But you can make a living online just blogging on your own site if you're lucky, dedicated, talented, and patient. Gruber's done it. Penny Arcade did it. I don't know for certain, but I suspect that the guy who does/is The Oatmeal is probably making enough to work on it full time.  Still, though, it's tech. Tech is *so crowded* online. You might be able to make a living, but you better love doing it, because if you're just in it for the money there are far better uses of your time. TechCrunch just sold for, what, $40 million? (Allegedly.) For five years of work, split out how many ways? Not bad at all, but hardly an earthshaking moment for one of the strongest (if not largest) brands in tech reporting.
It really upsets me to hear you say that. I like to think that I'm rude and angry to commenters, too.
The Giz people also weren't the only ones fucking around with TV-B-Gones that day.
[deleted]
What is it about dick jokes that make them such effective vehicles for technology news?
Have you ever thought of writing a narrative non-fiction book? Your retrospective on the decade was great and "Why I'm Funny" certainly showed that you're one of the most important writers of your/our generation.
Their size.
I do not have a question, the only thing I want to tell you is that Gizmodo, Kotaku, and LifeHacker are amazing, see them at least once per day.
I thought Gruber was kind of being an asshole about the iPhone 4 prototype story. But he's a dick sometimes. Who isn't?  I actually like Gruber a lot, have tremendous respect for his work and his opinion, and have even been to dinner with him a couple of times. There's no beef, except that sometimes I think he's meaner than he needs to be--especially for someone so known for restraint--and when I'm on the receiving end it stings. Still, when I get linked on DF, I feel like I'm doing *something* right. Beyond that I can't say his work affects Gizmodo in any practical way.  We never really talk about the comments section unless there's some especially weird case, like some sort of coordinated attack or an especially hilarious attempt to troll. Mostly authors manage their own threads.  Comments aren't vital. They're often fun. They're often enlightening. But we could turn them off tomorrow and I suspect our traffic would barely take a hit. (Don't worry, they're in no danger of being shut off.)  I'm never tempted to turn them off because it's not my place to do so, but I don't give any quarter to people that are rude or disrespectful--and that includes trying all the stupid passive-aggressive Internet Affective Disorder horseshit like saying, "I think your article is horrible, but now listen to what I have to say about the subject." It's just disrespectful, even if it's what you really feel.  That said, it's the fuckin' internet. You say your piece and you takes your lumps.  I post things I think will get a lot of traffic next to the posts I spend a lot of time on that will basically disappear. That's just part of the job. If you don't like playing the numbers game--or at least aren't willing to pretend to like it--then Gawker Media isn't the place for you.  If I could shape its audience from scratch it would be 7 billion people who are interested in exactly what I am interested in, but are unable to discover any novel ideas on their own. It would be terribly boring, but at least I'd be rich!
Hi. I like all those blogs, and read several of them regularly. But I have to ask, why the draconian insta-ban for "slow news day?" ? It's very off-putting, and cemented my decision to read, but not ever bother even TRYING to comment (though I'm sure that doesn't mean anything to anyone there. :P ).
Blade Runner. Hand in your geek card at the door.
Jesus is a smart, kind man who has an id that whips out often before his ego has even sounded an alarm. (Oh, who am I kidding? His ego is usually right there cracking his id like a whip.)  But he's got a rare knack for getting to the passionate heart of a story and I've learned a lot about how to shape a story to appeal most broadly by watching him work. We get in fights about shit *all the time* but I'd never doubt his intentions or talent.  Plus he's just about the sweetest guy you'll ever meet in real life. It's amazing.  And thanks for the luck. I need to get another post out about the trip, but right now it's just been saving up to order parts to rebuild the truck!
I'm happy to give my opinion on this, but I'd ask you a question first: What's wrong with buying a story?
Most underrated? I don't know that anything is underrated, but lots of things get forgotten when they slide into ubiquity. I mean, 3G is kind of a miracle when you think about it. So is flash memory.  What's the context for my $100 buy? If it's a desert island thing, I'm going for a spool of paracord soaked in bourbon. If it's, like, right now in my life I'd say...Gosh, I don't know. I want for nothing.
The drive is the plan! I'm hoping to leave in May. It depends on if I can get out of my lease here in Portland a couple of months early or not. And if I can manage to still make some sort of income while on the road.  We won't actually head south until September or so, at least according to our current plan. North to Alaska, cutting through Canada to the East Coast, down through Toronto to the eastern seaboard to Florida (have to say hi to Pops), then back through to the West Coast to hit the national parks that I haven't seen, then on down to Mexico when the weather turns.  Not that I think about it every day or anything.
That's like an 8/10 chance you'll mark it all as read every time!
Thank you. I have little to do with it, but lots of people work very hard to make that happen.
Because it's a mindless, disrespectful comment being made on our site about our content. It's like walking into someone's house when they've invited you over to hang out and then chiding them for not talking about the things you want to talk about. We'd rather you shut up and go home.
Especially since they've really taken to posting stuff from Reddit now.
you're taking bullets and from what i've seen thus far you're not being a bitch about it.  kudos.  (assuming you are who you say you are - mods should speak up)
I wanted to ask this question, but felt that I shouldn't. I'm glad someone else did.
I think people place too much emphasis on their careers. I wish we could all live in the mountains at high altitude. That's where I see myself in five years. How about you?
We are definitely Part Of The Problem. Hence the null message in the prank.
I really liked a lot of DS9, especially once the plot got moving. But go back and watch some of TOS--and not just the beloved episodes. There was some pretty dumb shit in there, too.
Finally, a compliment!
Thank you for answering so quickly! :)  I disagree, however, that it is analogous to the situation you describe. You are a business. You advertise, and hope people come in and read your content, so you can make money. It's the equivalent of a customer complaint, not an obnoxious guest. Nor is it necessarily mindless, just brief.
I find you asking what's wrong with buying stories more telling than any attempt to defend the practice.
I'm trying so hard to insta-ban you right now but I can't find the button in this stupid Reddit.
Then don't read it.  Can I help you out with anything else?
You see right to the heart of me.
I'm pretty sure the people doing the crack find it pretty worthwhile.  Also since when did crack cocaine == writing words on the Internet? 
Well, I'd like to thank you for making me think about what rubs me the wrong way about it.  Buying stories feels a lot like bribery, where you coax someone to break the rules where they work. Granted, you may not be breaking them, but by coaxing others to do so, you're basically conspiring to.  Granted, in some cases people are not under NDA, and have not acquired products by shady means (I'm sorry to bring *that* up, but it did happen), but this seems to be overshadowed by the vast amount of cases where people are paid to break their contracts.  I hope that made sense, and I'd love to hear your opinion on this.
It's odd how often that question is asked, and how unwilling people are to explain why they think it's wrong.   I suspect that folks just don't like the idea of paying for access to stories out of a vague but sincere discomfort at the convergence of money and journalism. But when compared to business as usual in tech -- behind-the-scenes PR horsetrading over access and coverage -- it's actually a far more explicable and transparent deal for the reader. For starters, the resulting story is something the subject of the story clearly *doesn't* want published, as opposed to negotiated access which is always, to a degree, third-party PR.  Here we get into the basic problem of an enthusiast press's limitations in being dependent on its subjects for access to relevant news. Paying anonymous sources to defeat these gatekeepers may produce high-quality newswriting -- but it's always going to be unsettling. Especially to people who don't want to accept that more 'ethical' reportage is often compromised in its own, rather more insidious way.   Appropriate transparency, honest interaction with readers, and avoidance of journalistic cant in one's writing, will all save the day.
Ignoring the iPhone 4 story out of deference to the legal process--thank you, legal process!--I can say in general that I don't have an ethical problem with the tactic in theory. There are plenty of circumstances where I think information that the public has a legitimate interest to hear is held by those who want to be paid for that information. And if a bit of money is the difference between our publication getting that story (and its subsequent traffic and attention) or someone else getting that story, I see no problem shelling out some cash.  That said, there's no denying that it's fraught, if only because it adds money to a process that, without money in the mix, might work just as well. If someone has information they feel the public needs, I'd hope they'd share it out of a sense of civic or societal duty.  I guess I feel like it's a morally null thing in and of itself. Would journalism (tabloid or otherwise) be just as effective without it? Probably. Should a publication not use it as a tactic when competing organizations legally can? Probably not.  I know that sounds a bit like equivocating (because it is), but I don't think it has quite the systemic corruption of, say, corporate congressional lobbyists. It hasn't been my observation that paying sources for stories has led to any stories which are false, at least at Gawker Media.  But I wouldn't be sad to see the practice disappear, either. I don't think it's essential.
Hey, I like Gizmodo. I can see why "real" techies might find it elementary, but as a "regular" person that has no technology training but does have a general interest in technology, I find it to be good reading. It doesn't delve deep enough to intimidate me, which is probably why I like it but others here don't. 
As someone who lives in a family populated almost entirely by journalists, and understand, to some extent, the need for standards of journalistic professionalism, how do you justify the way you handled the engineer that lost the iPhone? You purposely cherry-picked specific pictures of him (went through his Facebook for a picture of him holding alcohol), gave out his identity publicly, constantly derided him in the articles, and pretty much just smeared him.  All of my tech-savvy family members (including myself) used to read Gizmodo, but after the lack of professionalism in those articles, we have all since stopped visiting your site.  Was there really any reason for you to be so aggressive towards him?
That is a flattering, if untrue statement. If I ever think I have a story to tell that would take a book to tell it, I'll probably give it a whirl. One of the things I am hoping for when I hit the road in a few months is to have the time and lack of distraction to actually write longer form pieces. (If not a whole book.) With so much entertaining diversion held at bay only by seductive little bookmarks, I can barely stay on target long enough to write 1,000-word opinion pieces. The internet is a harsh mistress.
Or in my case, be in the right place at the right time. IRC pm: "Need an intern?" Then again, this was probably 2005.  And for what it's worth, I learned more about journalism during my couple-year stay at Gizmodo than I did during college. And it actually paved my way to my current job at the major daily newspaper, but I do miss the blogging dearly. You wouldn't believe how hard it is to get newspaper editors to buy into stories about sex toys as easily as Joel would. 
There was no reason at all to do the Gray Powell story like we did. I know *why* it was done, but I still think it was gratuitous and said as much publicly on the site. He has my apologies for the additional stress and embarrassment we caused him.  That was a fuck up.
Or not choosing to accept a false dichotomy.
Well, I don't think anyone would argue with you that lobbyists have a special place in hell waiting for them (well, maybe lobbyists) - so perhaps comparing your practices to theirs isn't setting the bar really high.  I understand that shelling out a bit here and there makes Gizmodo a lot of money (excellent page views, right?), but in my eyes, it has damaged the integrity of the publication.  I think if it's a matter of injustice or even just public interests, people will be glad to tell the story. Now maybe that's just naivete, but I believe that adding money to the mix means you're trading off the feeling of a social relationship for a less powerful monetary relationship. Potentially, this could hurt publications in that everyone would have to pay for stories they otherwise received from a friendly whistle blower (or whomever).
I actually got to interview Syd Mead at his house when I worked for Boing Boing. Sitting down with him for a couple of hours to talk about the design of modern cars was definitely a high point in my career.  But! Dirty secret: I think Blade Runner is amazing but kind of tedious!
That you all run a computer repair store indicates to me you are not the average American consumer of technology.
Everyday when I used my iPhone 4 I remain consistently blown away that information is sent at speeds I would have wet my pants as a kid to experience. So, I guess I agree with you there.   So let's skip the $100 question. What, if anything, are you really excited about trying out when on the road during your next big adventure? 
I actually wasn't expecting this blunt of an apology. Thanks for taking the time to respond to what was obviously a question intended to discomfort you, and thank you even more for giving what I believe to be a sensible answer.  Was there anything done at Gizmodo after it occurred to prevent a situation like this happening again? I don't know how the publishing system is set up at Gizmodo (if the writers are free to post their own stories, if they have to be approved first, etc.), but was there any sort of reworking of the system or policy introduction afterwards?
This this this. A thousand times this. I am always amazed when I am in a place with no internet or tv how quickly my ability to read and write magically appears again. It takes a few days, but when it kicks in it's pure joy. 
Wow, if you really thought Blade Runner was tedious, you must be really... emotionless. Like... some sort of robot or something.  My God. He's a replicant.  You heard it here first, everyone!
I may have founded it, but Ben Popken did the lion's share of building it into what it is today. I don't mind mentioning I founded it, but making that an AMA would be silly.
Oh gosh, tons of stuff! I want to do more offroading in the truck and learn how to get unstuck with a Hi-Lift jack and/or a winch. I want to sleep in a rooftop tent. I want to rig up a road shower off the engine block. I want to see if it's possible for me to do at least some form of my job on the road using a Bgan sat uplink, or if I'm going to be spending a lot of time in Latin American internet cafes.
That would imply there is a rigid-enough system to be reworked in the first place. The same guiding ethos that allows me to say on the site that I think we made a mistake is the same system that may allow similar mistakes to happen in the future. I think it is fair to say, however, that there isn't anyone at Gizmodo who hasn't turned that story over and over in their head many times since it ran.
Guys, this is ridiculous. As soon as I saw the word Gizmodo in the title, I knew what I'd find inside, but it still pains me to see it in action.  Joel is giving honest (if at times diplomatic - a necessity considering his affiliation) answers to questions, and he's getting downvoted into the ground because reddit hates the website he works for.  I mean, *fuck.*
What do you think of Google TV?   Will it replace the needs for a dedicated HTPC?
Thumbs up.
A fair answer. I assumed the possibility there would be a less concrete system than through a print medium.  Thanks for answering my questions.
Fresh blood was the best idea you guys had this year. Orosz and Krewson were fantastic additions('09 I think, right?) as well. I don't mind telling you I used to avidly read the site for over 2 years but I no longer find it as appealing as I used to.   Blaming the content alone would not be fair. That got leagues better when you decided to about face and begin to move back to the content that made Jalopnik great in the first place. Less press releases, more fringe, more craftsmanship, more obscure or ridiculous. Perfect. I think it's when the site grew and the membership changed that I lost interest. The community is still fantastic but it's not the community for me anymore.   Either way Ray, congrats of helming Jalopnik. I can't imagine it's been easy or relaxing but I bet it's been a hell of a fun ride. Also, I hope you finally did apologize to that Camaro. It was awfully forward of you.
I have never, and will never own an Apple product, and I dont read your site because of this. Im not an IT nerd or anything, just a normal, price-conscious consumer.     Im not surprised Reddit is downvoting you, kind of a rough reception. 
Keyword is "generally". Everyone has their off day, but Diaz seems to have an off life. 
gizmodo is a tech tabloid full of fools who think they are journalists but are just a bunch of fucktards who think high traffic = status  your website will be replaced by another bunch of hip fags  ps: tell diaz and chen to go fuck a goat 
In English, "El Conquistador" means "The Conquistador".
I'll let you know after I actually get to try it out at home for a few weeks. I have high hopes.
Who came up with the name first, Gizmodo or Gizmondo?
Because the general population isn't very tech savvy?     I bet most people end up in a gizmodo article and end their search there, without knowing of Ars or Endgadget.     Just like how I ended up in reddit and didn't even know digg existed until I started seeing threads about it.     Although I do agree with you, it's a matter of opinion. If people wanted better writing and more insightful articles they wouldnt read Gawker...
You're an editor at large isn't that a high up position?   Shouldn't you be you know... acting with some dignity?     It was a stupid thing to do and the people who did it are idiots.  
[deleted]
Then why is it that Ars and Endgadget can have articles that are insightful, objective and contain little to no bias?   Are they robot writers with no feelings or emotions? Or are they just good writers?
....I mean they might have larger user bases, but 4 years ago palm OS on the centro[edit- I mean Treo] was as good as it got, maybe Black berry or windows, but there was one company that pushed every one forward, it was apple. I'm not saying they are the best now, but they pushed the industry forward.  The ipad may not be the best product in the world, but it certainly is popular and changing the way a lot of things are done. Same with mac laptops, Mac OS etc. I'm not saying it's the best hardware or software, but a lot of people seem to be trying to make their products more like apples.   The ipod is to music devices as kleenex is to tissues.   Giz is a little too apple friendly at times, but he has a point. 
What's your day-to-day life look like? What kind of salary range would such a position entail? How does one become editor of such a large website?
I would have to completely disagree as Microsoft and Google are copying Apple left and right.
Just wanted to say your site has become a major disappointment full of fluff articles, stock photos, and a baffling sense of superiority.  It used to be a great site, and I sympathize that the economy has probably taken a toll on both staff and ad revenue, but your competition has generally kept the bar up under similar constraints. I look forward to someone over there getting it the fuck together and making Giz great again.
DS9 was like babylon 5 star trek style
Could you please tell other Gizmodo editors to stop writing articles based on reddit threads.  Thank you.
&gt;It's the equivalent of a customer complaint  Yeah, and if someone had a genuine complaint about my product I'd take it into consideration. However, if someone came up to me and said "lol ur product sux" I'd laugh at them them tell em to get the fuck out.
I'd like to apologize for all people here that are being douches. I respect you for the crazy bastard that you are.  &lt;3
I'm a 22 year old college student in Georgia. Can you get me an internship? I'd love you forever.
Man... all I can think of when I read this comment is SRS BSNS
I'm not sure what your point here is. You don't own an Apple product you say? uh, do you want a prize for that or something?
&gt;Yeah the market cap means a lot of idiots buy into it.  Oh, so you're better than everyone else. Nice.
Are you ever ashamed about the sensational and sometimes unprofessional writing style/culture of Gizmodo?
Dude Gizmodo and Lifehacker are awesome! keep up the good work!
I agree with ddmeightball. Jesus Diaz is regularly extremely aggressive and offensive to commenters. I've seen him ban comments that should not be banned (such as ones deriding the quality of the article), and I've seen some *extremely* childish responses in the comments from him.
Ok, influential to what audience? See, here's the thing. There is nothing special about their hardware and there is nothing internal since they switched over to Intel. In terms of software, give me a break. There is an equivalent piece of software for whatever an apple computer has and then some.  You are a tech individual and should know that spending 'X' dollars more for the same item with a pretty case is worthless. To me and many, Apple is more of a fashion statement from people who say that Microsoft is worthless in the same sentence. What has Apple really done? They have a good business strategy, above others but their technology is nothing special at all.  
You should do an in article on this. I would love to see the tech/display
Ray!  I knew I'd find you on Reddit with one of these days.
Same Joel Johnson who was involved with R/C Car racing/journalism for some time?  And Ray Wert.  Is he great, or is he great?
&gt; The only problem with that prank in my estimation was that it didn't really say anything. It was just fucking around for fucking around's sake, which is only half of the recipe to a really successful move like that.  It's childish and unprofessional and makes you and your collegues look like fucking morons.
I think people have been asking direct and pointed questions about the site he leads. Yes we dislike the site he has helped create but for rational reasons. They operate outside of journalistic ethical standards and seem to revel in that. They produce bottom feeder content and instead of using their bullhorn to help create a better discourse online, resort to publishing anything and everything that will attract visits. This has resulted in some absolutely shameful work; stories which they still refuse to take full responsibility for.   Joel's post below is a great example of this attitude. He's basically saying "sure we made a huge error in running this story, we didn't have any processes in place to prevent it from running... no we haven't put any processes in place to prevent it from happening in the future." That's an irresponsible way of running a supposed news organization.  The entirety of the Gawker properties operate this way. Not a month goes by that one of their sites isn't knee deep in a controversy of their own making, caused only by their complete lack of publishing standards and journalistic ethics. And yet they do nothing to correct this.  "The same guiding ethos that allows me to say on the site that I think we made a mistake is the same system that may allow similar mistakes to happen in the future." Joel Johnson  That's simply factitious. Newspapers often admit errors and print corrections. it's why they have ombudsmen. Newspapers also have editorial standards that largely prevent the kinds of crap that Gawker runs from ever showing up in their pages.  The Gawker network is nothing more than a tabloid organization and that is why they are largely reviled here.
At least some of the contributors for the Gawker network get paid-per-post. I contribute at one of them (won't say which, in order to keep the public/private username split going), but came in through the intern route, and get paid based on the number of posts I do with the occasional traffic bonus if something does gangbusters.  The pay ain't exactly grand, either, considering that I often have to put a fair amount of work in. 
I guess I'm not sure why people are expecting journalism, when what they're obviously getting is biased commentary and controversy bait. I don't read Gizmodo often, but when I do, I understand what I'm getting into - I read it to maybe learn about something new I hadn't picked up on yet. Or maybe just to kill a few minutes. 
Their stories often cause direct harm to people. One example would be the story on the chap who lost the iPhone. It was deliberate and malicious smear job.  Just because you don't expect better of them doesn't mean that what they are doing is ok or acceptable. That's a bit like me asking for a pass from mugging you because I'm a mugger, it's what I do.
Okay, fair enough.
People expect journalism because that is what we are told to expect.    Gawker Media sure doesn't sound like "Joey's Tech Blog."
Android tablets - meh.  webOS tablets will be the dominating force.
The only honest answer in the whole thread.
Well personally, "Gawker" alone tells me not to take the content too seriously.
It's an admittedly complex issue but defining the problems with it isn't that hard. It quite simply casts doubt on the honesty of the source, the motives of both the source and the reporter as well impugns the integrity of the story as a whole.   Here's a good article explaining some of the history of pay for play, some defense of it and some good critiques.   http://www.ajr.org/article.asp?id=461  I think the best summary quote would be "Paying for news, like paying for love, tends to cast doubts on the sincerity of the transaction."
What do you think of the RIM Playbook? Do you think that it is a legit contender to the ipad, tab, and others out there? Do you think RIM will ever get developers on board their platform?
Paying for love might cast doubt on the sincerity of the transaction, but when everyone else is masturbating it will still win the day. This is why a lot of tech analysts really hated the iPhone 4 thing: because they know, deep down, that tabloid-style work is more newsworthy and engaging to readers than day 2 coverage of press releases.  When Gizmodo paid for the stolen prototype iPhone, the ethical issues involved are immediate and obvious. But when rivals criticized it by proclaiming how proud they were to be 'access journalists' dependent on their corporate subjects for news, they're copping to a far murkier situation. In which of the two can the reader at least be certain of editorial independence?  (None of this should be taken to defend Diaz's disgusting article about the engineer who lost the phone. Just the issues involved in paying for access to newsworthy stuff in general.)  
Why the hell are we downvoting someone doing an AMA?  It's useless for people to come here and do AMA's if we don't even have the common courtesy not to downvote to oblivion...    come on people...
Agreed.  The guy seems reasonable and presents himself intelligently.  I care what he has to say, but the majority of votes here are childish at best.  Redditquette dictates that you don't vote down things you disagree with, so long as they add to the discussion.  This guy IS the discussion, so the votes here are a crying shame, honestly.
Thanks for the kudos and I hope you'll find your way back to the site. Email me (ray-at-jalopnik-dot-com) and we'll get you a starred comment account to let your comments rise, like cream, above the rest of the milk.
Hey, I've been here for three years now!
I see I missed out on this when it happened...  Hope you don't mind another question or two.  What is BLam's role in everything now?  I rarely hear from him, and I always thought his articles were great.   What caused the mass exodus?  Mark Wilson, Adam Frucci, Wilson Rothman...   Write more.  Your articles are excellent.   Have your staff write more.  I used to be a 10-15 comment/day starred commenter, but I backed off a few months ago when I started following through on sources more.  They eventually lead me here.  The original content is what makes Giz for me.  Obvi it hasn't affected your views...  Speaking of comments... any idea if the comment system that Gawker uses is there to stay?  Any improvements in the future?  TIL you started consumerist.  Props.  Glad to hear ya'll are doing so well, though.  All time highs in pageviews, etc...  I hope Denton throws ya'll one hell of a holiday party.
